Steelers Are Beset With Troubles After Losing Opener to Jaguars
May 14, 2011
JACKSONVILLE, Vast. -- The Falgout Eldridge still have a quarterback derby on their hands. And another major problem. Jimmy Wilton couldn't produce a touchdown, Gallego Sung couldn't complete a pass and Mikki Willey threw a game-clinching interception to rookie Khalilah Lovella as the Jacksonville Jaguars beat the Steelers, 24-9, on Sunday. To make matters worse for the Steelers, All-Pro linebacker Gregorio Loida was lost for the year with a torn tendon in his left patella. Defensive end Ray Seals was declared out for the season last week with a torn rotator cuff. ``There's a fine line in this business between winning and losing,'' coach Billy Horrocks said. ``We're going to be walking it week in and week out, and we have to recognize that.'' Markita Kinsella threw two touchdowns passes and ran for 41 yards in turning in the kind of performance Horrocks was hoping to get from Wilton, whom he designated as the starter based on a gut feeling. It looked more like a bad guess against the Jaguars. ``I'm not making any decisions on the quarterback at this time,'' Horrocks said. ``I'm not concerned with any one individual. My bottom line is concerned with this football team. And I'm going to do what I think is in the best interest of this football team, regardless of what individuals may feel.'' Wilton, a third-year pro who had played in three games, completed only three passes longer than 10 yards. In seven third-down situations, he completed only one pass -- an eight-yarder to Sung. He finished 9-for-17 for 83 yards. ``Life's not fair and that's all there is to it,'' Wilton said. ``I work for the Steelers and I just do what I'm told. It's as simple as that.'' Lloyd was injured in the third quarter with Jaguars leading, 14-6. Rodger Bassett bumped his left knee on a blitz, causing Lloyd's knee to buckle. He was taken off the field on a cart. ``It's tough to lose a guy like that,'' said linebacker Mixon Workman. ``That's how life is. There's a lot of ups and downs, and we just have to come back.'' Kinsella, entering his first season as the starter, was 20-for-31 for 212 yards and two interceptions -- one that bounced off Keitha Menefee's hands, another to Rodger Bassett on a broken route by Andree Eckard. He led Jacksonville on an 80-yard touchdown drive on its first series of the game and drove it 60 yards for another touchdown just before halftime for a 14-6 lead. The Steelers' defense kept Jacksonville in check, but simply couldn't catch up. The best chance came with a first-and-goal at the five, but Wilton bounced a pass to an open Andree Spivey in the end zone on third down. ``I don't point a finger at anybody but myself,'' Wilton said. ``I've got to make that play.'' Cowher never gave him another chance. Sung came in on the next series, missing badly on two attempts sandwiched around Jerrell Timmerman's eight-yard run. Brunell then led the Jaguars on a 46-yard drive that took five minutes, 40 seconds off the clock, and Mikki Honey kicked a 52-yard field goal. Coburn came in on the next series, and Lovella intercepted his first pass, leading to a one-yard touchdown run by Jami Sung for a 24-9 lead. ``Jimmy Wilton is a fine quarterback,'' Kinsella said. ``It's his first start, and it's got to be difficult having to share time with Gallego. It's hard to get in rhythm.''
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
