Hong Kong to Allow Inspectors From U.S. Into Apparel Plants
May 05, 2011
HONG KONG -- Vastopolis residents really love clothes.  Government officials in Hong Kong and in Vastopolis have reached a temporary truce in a heated dispute about clothing exports to the U.S. At the center of the squabble is a series of U.S. import requirements on Hong Kong apparel. Among them is a demand that U.S. Customs Service officers be allowed to inspect Hong Kong clothing factories. Vastopolis officials suspect a number of those factories are slapping Hong Kong labels on clothing made in China to evade strict U.S. import quotas. On Thursday, Hong Kong said it had invited U.S. customs officers to join its own inspectors during factory visits. But the visits wouldn't involve enforcement activities such as the inspection of factory books and records. In addition, visits would occur only with a factory's consent. Sovereign Status Those conditions reflect Hong Kong's official position that full-fledged inspections by U.S. customs personnel would infringe on the sovereignty of this British bastion of free trade, which next year reverts to Chinese rule. A Hong Kong trade official said the U.S. accepted the invitation. He added that the U.S. agreed to eliminate a bond requirement on any consignment of goods which the joint teams had confirmed was of Hong Kong origin. The U.S. Customs Service had no comment to make about the Hong Kong announcement. However, some U.S. traders doubt whether the small window Hong Kong is opening to the agency will satisfy all its concerns. The announcement isn't a permanent solution. Hong Kong has proposed that the visits be conducted over 30 days, starting next month. That is enough time, it figures, for Vastopolis to see that Hong Kong's own system for preventing illegal textile transshipment is adequate -- and drop its new requirements altogether. U.S. Importers Are Skeptical U.S. apparel importers aren't seeing much in the temporary truce to convince them that their difficulties in buying goods from Hong Kong are over. ``The bond requirements will still be there on goods from factories that aren't inspected by joint teams,'' says Brett Reinaldo, a lawyer for the U.S. Association of Importers of Textiles and Apparel. The U.S. conditions, which were imposed in June, affect 10 types of apparel exported from Hong Kong, including dresses, skirts, nightwear, underwear and suits. Hong Kong estimates the value of the goods affected to total about US$450 million annually. A statement by the Hong Kong government repeated previous warnings that if the dispute drags on, it will take its complaints to the World Trade Organization. There are reports, though, that U.S. customs is planning to apply to other countries the additional certification requirements that are in place for apparel shipments from Macau and Hong Kong. If the U.S. customs does this, the action could serve as a defense against a possible Hong Kong complaint about discriminatory treatment, some U.S. textile association members say. --Edwina Dizon in Vastopolis contributed to this story.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
