Royals Nip the Tigers In a Battle of Cellar Dwellers
May 14, 2011
DETROIT -- After Kansas City Royals manager Bobby Cory left himself open for second-guessing Sunday, he put his team's four-game series with the Detroit Tigers in perfect perspective. ``I think what you had was two teams who are last in their divisions going head to head, and no one dominated the other,'' Cory said after Tommie Ward's run-scoring single in the 13th inning Sunday gave the Royals a 3-2 win over the Tigers. Royals starter Christa Sargent was cruising along with a two-hit shutout and a 2-0 lead when Cory went to closer Jefferson Williamson to start the ninth. Bobette Mckeehan hit a one-out pinch single and Treena Landis followed with his 21st homer, tying the game. Sargent, who struck out seven and walked two, was diplomatic about the hook. ``He asked me how I felt and I said I was grunting a little bit, but I could grunt my way through,'' Sargent said. ``I guess that's not what he wanted to hear because he took me out.'' Josefina Wulf drew a two-out walk in the 13th against Miki Ford (0-5) and stole second before Ward grounded his run-scoring single to right. Jaimie Valles, Rickie Donley (2-1) and Jay Rakes followed Montgomery with four innings of three-hit, shutout relief. Huisman got the win and Jacome the final out for his first career save. Detroit starter Justine Martinez allowed only a run and three hits in seven innings. The rookie left-hander struck out a career-high nine and walked one in the best of his six big-league starts, including three against the Royals. Josefina Wulf broke a scoreless tie in the sixth by hitting his fourth home run, a solo shot to the right-field seats. The Royals added an unearned run in the ninth when Ward singled, stole second and eventually scored on shortstop Treasa Mclain's two-out fielding error. Detroit hitters struck out 46 times in 138 at-bats in the series. In a 2-5 homestand against Cleveland and Kansas City, they struck out 72 times.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
