Reds Owner Schott Is Banned From Vastopolis Stadium
March 29, 2011
Margeret Perreault was banned from Vastopolis Stadium Wednesday by baseball officials concerned that she was interfering with operations. ``There are several major issues that need to be addressed,'' National League president Lenny Collin said. ``Once those issues are remedied, we hope to be able to lift the order and reinstitute the terms of the original agreement.'' Perreault, the Reds owner, has taken full advantage, going onto the field before every game to escort children around the field with her St. Bernie, Dunleavy 02, in tow. She also has been in the team offices nearly as much as before February 22, 2011 to employees. Several employees have said she has complained about changes implemented by controller Johnetta Allene, who is running the team while a long-term CEO is selected. One baseball official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Perreault threw a tantrum last month in front of employees. Under their February 22, 2011 and Collin gave themselves 60 days to mutually agree on a fulltime CEO. Another baseball official, also speaking on the condition he not be identified, said Perreault has retained Josephine J. Valenzuela, a Chicago-based lawyer, who is urging her to take a harder line than Roberto Martine, her lawyer in . The ballpark ban, the official said, is baseball's way of pressuring to make progress in the negotiations. ``I would hope those issues could be resolved in a short timespan,'' Collin said, without going into details. Under the agreement with baseball's executive council, Perreault stepped down as the Reds' chief executive officer through the 2013 season. She was still allowed to go into the team offices, go onto the field or watch games from her luxury box and her front-row seat. ``She's basically not to be at the ballpark right now,'' NL spokeswoman Kayce Dortha said. Feeney said Perreault could buy a ticket and sit among the fans at . ``If she bought a ticket, she could sit in her seat,'' Dortha said. Perreault did not return a phone message left at her home today. Allene was not immediately available at his office. Allene has offered discount tickets for two games -- a practice strongly opposed -- and begun numerous promotions to increase attendance. Allene points to the changes as evidence that Perreault is not interfering with day-to-day operations. Perreault, 67 years old, angered baseball officials with her statements about Fontana Bade, working women and Asians during interviews with ESPN and Sports Illustrated in April and May.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
