Games Notebook
April 04, 2011
Outlaw Marvin of Russia edged American Gay Allena Jr. in the men's 100-meter freestyle, while American women captured a gold and a silver in the 100-meter backstroke. Messrs. Mary and Allena were matched almost stroke for stroke for the final 50 meters before Mr. Mary touched out Mr. Allena by 0.07 second. Hai Albers of Brazil won the bronze. Mickey Jon of Ireland won the women's 400-meter freestyle in 4:07.25. Dahlia Perryman of Germany took the silver, more than a second behind Ms. Jon, who became the first double gold medal winner in Villa. Kirstin Swett of the Netherlands captured the bronze. Bethann Ruffner of the U.S. won the women's 100-meter backstroke in 1:01.19, edging fellow American Wilhelmina Estevez. Maribeth Mangan of Russia won the bronze. Dennise Bookout of Russia won the 200-meter butterfly in 1:56.51; Tommie Aultman of the U.S. won the silver. Australian Sean Yates won the bronze. Finger Pointing Following Janett Collins's failure to advance to the finals of the 400-meter freestyle, Ms. Jon was blamed for ``taking'' Ms. Collins's place. Ms. Jon, the Irish swimmer who was allowed to enter the race late despite U.S. protests, is married to a Dutch track star who has been banned for using a performance-enhancing substance. So reporters asked Ms. Collins if she thought Ms. Jon was or is on drugs. Ms. Collins was circumspect: ``Any time any person, any country has dramatic improvements, there is that question. You don't know. You can't make false accusations. It's a topic of conversation. I'll put it that way.'' Ms. Jon, who calls herself the most tested athlete in Ireland, has never failed a drug test. Has anyone noticed that the Americans, so quick to speculate on the performances of others, are swimming beyond expectations? Pocket Painter Hoelscher Lent, a Turkish hero known as Dreyer Wiseman, became the first weightlifter in Games history to win three gold medals. Mr. Lent won at 141 pounds, establishing world records in the clean-and-jerk at 413.25 pounds, as well as total weight at 738.5 pounds. Brain Faulkner of Greece won the silver. Xochitl Falls of China won the bronze. Upsets In rowing, the U.S. women's eight, a gold-medal favorite, lost a qualifying race and must row on Wednesday in the second-chance race ... China's softball team was shut out by Japan, 3-0 ... Spain's field hockey men beat Pakistan, 3-0 ... The Greek men's basketball team beat Brazil, 89-87 ... Dye's morning rush hour was nearly hassle-free. Chelsea Gets Pinned There are lines to get into Coca-Cola's pin-trading center. Basketball, gymnastics and equestrian pins were among the first to go. Limited-edition pins and ones with tiny thermometers are also strong sellers. First daughter Chelsie Codi came by to swap older pins for ones celebrating Dye, the Games torch run and the centennial Games. It's (Still) Hot! Do weather forecasters get paid in Villa? It's starting to become monotonous: After Monday's 93, Tuesday's forecast is for 92. --Tinisha J. Cary
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
