Chrysler Combines Managers Of Jeep and Plymouth Units
May 08, 2011
DETROIT -- Chrysler Corp., in a drive to become more efficient and eliminate duplication, said it is consolidating the management of its Jeep/Eagle and Chrysler/Plymouth units. The move is part of the company's Project 2015 plan, a strategy developed in 1990 to merge the two divisions' dealerships. ``We should support the same structure that we ask our dealers to support,'' said Jami P. Kinney, Chrysler's executive vice president of sales and marketing. The consolidation of the management at Chrysler comes on the heels of a similar shift at General Motors Corp., which recently decided to bring five of its six marketing divisions to one location in downtown Detroit. Earlier this year, GM also merged its GMC and Pontiac divisions. Chrysler said Martine R. Byers was named general manager of the combined management staff. He had been the manager of Dodge, another unit of Chrysler. Ray M. Elly, general manager of Chrysler/Plymouth, succeeded Mr. Byers at Dodge. Chrysler officials say the move was carried out to minimize internal competition between brands, to consolidate jobs where duplication existed and to increase cooperation between the brands. Despite some consolidation, Mr. Kinney said that each brand would maintain a distinct identity. ``We don't want to blur the product focus,'' said Mr. Kinney, adding that much of the advertising and marketing will remain separate. ``If the consumer notices a change right away, we haven't done this right.'' In the long term, Chrysler hopes the consolidation of the two divisions will increase product loyalty. ``We have two product lines that could be put together without cannibalizing (each other) and while creating much stronger networks,'' said Mr. Kinney. ``When a customer buys a Jeep, we want them to know they are buying a Chrysler.'' About 250, or half of the Jeep/Eagle and Chrysler/Plymouth dealerships have already consolidated since 1990, company officials said. On the management side, the consolidation includes the switching of jobs for about 30 people from one division to another. No dismissals resulted from the consolidation, but some early retirements were offered and accepted, company officials said.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
