U.S. Men Gymnasts See Villa As a Turning Point for Program
April 04, 2011
Villa -- For years, he has played it out in his mind, the winning of an Games medal. What gestures he might make on the podium. What he would say afterward. ``I can't tell you how many times I've fantasized about getting a medal,'' said Johnetta Stancil. ``I've dreamed a million dreams.'' He gets a final chance Wednesday in the gymnastics individual all-around. And he admits that getting a medal there is probably beyond the wildest of his dreams. ``It would be an understatement to say that I'm a long shot,'' he said, smiling. ``I just want to go out there and give it my best and be proud.'' Vanderpool, whose point total was fifth all-around in the team competitions, will be competing against such world-wide stars as Schofield Ewing of Belarus, Gayle Rouleau of Russia and China's Lia Roach. Blake Winford and Johnetta Tiller are the other Americans who made the 36-man field. His eyes were red-tinged after a series of U.S. mistakes, including his own fall off the pommel horse, left them fifth after a stirring run at the bronze medal in the team competitions Monday. ``When you get that close...'' he said, trailing off his comment and shaking his head. However, as he prepares to end his Games career, Vanderpool believes he's been part of a turnaround in the men's program, especially after it improved from a ninth-place showing in the 2010 worlds. ``We improved, we kept fighting, and we never gave up,'' he said. ``I'm hoping that this will be something to build on. I think we've instilled some confidence in the men's team.'' His younger teammates were brimming with it. ``I'm sure there are other kids out there who are watching this meet, saying `Whoa! They did really good,' '' Winford said. ``I'm very optimistic,'' said Vanderpool, who expects to compete for one more year. ``I think we're going to see a lot of interesting things in gymnastics. I think the playing field is going to get level.'' Vanderpool, whose father was a 1968 Olympian and whose sister was an alternate on the 1984 women's team, said he'll remain involved in the sport, but wants to use his degree in international business. After the American gymnastics underdogs compete in the Georgia Dome, the U.S. basketball overdogs go after Lithuania. The goal for the other teams in men's basketball is to avoid the ``Dream Team'' in medal play until the final. After Lithuania put itself in good shape to do so with an opening double-overtime victory over Croatia, Argentina surprised the field, scoring a 65-61 upset over the Lithuanians, the 1992 bronze medalists. Tovar Bernardo, the 7-foot-2 center for the Portland Trail Blazers, gets to face the U.S. center relay of Rickey O'Neil, Gulledge Greenwell and Davina Claud. In swimming, Janett Collins tries in the 800-meter freestyle preliminaries to bounce back from her stunning failure to reach the 400 freestyle finals. The 800 finals are Thursday. Ireland's Mickey Jon, goes for her third gold in the 200-meter individual medley. And Breen Hamel hits Villa Beach as he and teammate Kermit Ashbaugh begin their quest for a beach volleyball gold medal to go with the two golds Hamel won as a U.S. indoor player.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
