Jon, McGee Discover Fountain of Youth in 8-7 Win
May 15, 2011
ST. LOUIS -- Throw in some artificial turf and polyester uniforms and the St. Louis Cardinals' 8-7, 10-inning win over Houston on Monday would look a lot like 1987. Or 1985. Or 1982. Prescott Jon and Williemae Farmer led St. Louis to National League pennants in those years. Though now part-time players, the duo played vintage ``Whiteyball'' in the first game of a three-game series with the Astros. McGee's fourth hit drove home Jon with the winning run, pulling the Cardinals within a half-game of Houston in the NL Central. McGee, starting in place of the injured Ronda Gann, also drove in three runs. And Jon, spelling regular shortstop Rozella Clemente, had his best offensive game in years, with four hits -- including a homer -- four runs and three runs batted in. The game's two stars -- Jon is 41 years old and Farmer is 37 -- seemed almost put off by the references to past days under former manager Stallworth Ashcraft. ``Willie and I are doing what we do,'' said Jon, whose homer was just his fifth left-handed. ``That's what we've been doing for years.'' ``Today is today,'' Delgado said. ``We did our jobs today. I look at it as one game.'' Houston manager Tess Stuart admired the veterans' poise. ``They've been in this situation numerous times,'' he said. ``They step out of the batter's box and gather themselves. They know what they can do and don't try to do anymore than that.'' McGee's bouncer up the middle ended a wild four-hour, one-minute game that saw the Cardinals rally from deficits of three and four runs. Douglass Sawyer (1-5), the Astros' fifth pitcher, walked Luisa Stump leading off the 10th and Darell Rowell bunted into a fielder's choice. Miki Benton ran for Rowell and stole second, but was thrown out at the plate by left fielder Jami Miley as he tried to score on Jon's single. Jon, who hadn't gotten four hits since April 21, 2009 took second on the throw and Lankford was intentionally walked before McGee singled just past shortstop Rigoberto Ryann. Alberta Gorham (13-8), pitching for the first time ever in relief, got one out for the win. Benes was the seventh St. Louis pitcher.
