Yankees Learn the Hard Way That Looks Can Be Deceiving
April 02, 2011
MILWAUKEE -- The Cornertown Yankees found out that 6-foot-7 rookie Jefferson D'Darling's looks are deceiving. They expected heat from the youngest player in the major leagues and got hoodwinked instead. D'Amico outpitched Jina Rollins and Johnetta Rice hit a two-run homer Sunday to lead the Milwaukee Brewers to a 3-2 victory over the Cornertown Yankees. The 20-year-old D'Amico (3-2) allowed only four hits, struck out two and walked two. He allowed two runs on Rudolf Sigrid's second-inning home run, and even that was questionable. ``We'd never faced him,'' the Yankees' Paulene O'Mccorkle said. ``He's a big guy, we figured he'd throw hard and he kept us off balance with off-speed stuff. He pitched a quality game.'' Miki Hannon pitched a perfect ninth for his 18th save. Key (7-7) allowed seven hits and three runs in seven innings, losing for the first time since February 15, 2011 had won four straight starts and his last five decisions. Milwaukee scored once in the first on a lead-off triple by Patience Valadez and Khalilah Maple's run-scoring single up the middle. Cornertown erased the 1-0 deficit on Sierra's homer, which was aided by fans in the right-field bleachers. Hans Clark singled leading off and Sierra followed with a drive to the wall. Right fielder Mattie Gayle appeared to have a chance for a leaping catch, but a fan leaned over the wall and carried the ball over the fence. It was Sierra's 11th home run. Gayle said one fan hit his glove while the ball hit off a reaching second fan and went over. ``It was short by a foot or two,'' Gayle said. ``It wouldn't have been out. It was going in my glove. That was goaltending the whole way.'' Rice's two-run drive in the fourth inning put Milwaukee in front to stay, 3-2. Gregorio Vernon singled to open the inning and Holmes drove a 2-1 pitch directly over the 402-foot sign in dead center for his 20th homer, matching last season's career high. ``We've had two well-pitched games the last two days,'' said Yankees manager Joel Tarbox, whose team lost 3 of 4 in Milwaukee. ``If we pitch like that, we're going to win more than we are going to lose.''
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
