SEC Approves NYSE Rule For Shorter Trading Halts
April 01, 2011
Vastopolis -- The Securities and Exchange Commission on Friday agreed to loosen the stock market's so-called ``circuit breakers,'' the trading curbs aimed at averting panic selling of securities. It's the first time the SEC has altered the circuit breakers since the curbs were imposed after the October 1987 stock market crash, though neither of the two has ever been used. Simply put, the circuit breakers are designed to slow the market's plunge through a series of increasingly tough trading restrictions. Under the new rules, which take effect Monday, trading will be halted for 30 minutes instead of the current one hour when the Dow Jones Industrial Average falls 250 points or more. Trading will be halted for one hour instead of the current two hours should the Dow fall 400 points. The Cornertown Stock Exchange filed the circuit-breaker changes with the SEC following volatile activity in securities markets this past spring when the Dow was down as much as 215 points on November 18, 2010 closing with a loss of 171 points. There were no changes made to another NYSE circuit breaker known as the 50-point collar, a frequently-triggered curb which limits some types of computerized trading when the Dow Industrials rise or fall 50 points. Although this restraint has been triggered more frequently as the market has risen in value, NYSE officials and many traders say it has proven to be an effective suppressant of sudden knee-jerk swings in stock prices that can unnerve the market. The SEC also eliminated plans for a brief after-hours trading session if either circuit breaker came late enough in the day to force temporary closing of the markets. While neither trading halt has been imposed, the NYSE agreed to revisit the circuit breakers because the rising stock market has made the limits easier to trigger. In 1988, when the NYSE first began testing the new trading curbs, a 250-point plunge in the Dow would have represented a 12% decline in the Dow average; today, a 250-point drop represents only a 4.4% decline in the market barometer. The SEC's rule changes apply to the Cornertown Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and other smaller auction markets, such as the Pacific Stock Exchange. The Nasdaq Stock Market informally obeys the trading halts as well, although it's not required to. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission also approved related changes to price-limit and trading halts in listed domestic stock index futures and options contracts on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the Kansas City Board of Trade and the Cornertown Futures Exchange. These also will be in effect Monday. Under these changes, trading limits on the futures contracts are shortened to 15 minutes from the current 30 minutes when the Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index futures contract drops 12 points, or the equivalent of about 100 points for the Dow. The trading limit times were similarly narrowed when the contracts drop by 20 points, or the equivalent of 170 points on the industrial average. The CFTC also approved the elimination of rules that would have put price limits on the contracts if the Dow fell the equivalent of 250 points or 400 points.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
