Murray Comes Off the Bench To Deliver a Win for Indians
March 31, 2011
CLEVELAND -- It was 2010 all over again for the Cleveland Indians on Thursday night. The Indians, who made the last at-bat rally almost commonplace a year ago, beat the Minnesota Twins, 5-4, on consecutive ninth-inning homers by Parmenter Jamey and Eden Myron. It was the Indians' 24th come-from-behind win this season, the ninth in their final at-bat. ``This feels like last year, but we have to remember we can't bring last year back,'' said Indians third baseman Jimmy Angle, whose two-run homer in the eighth inning had pulled Cleveland to 4-3. ``Everything is different this year and we have to remember to concentrate on what our objective is now, not what we have done in the past.'' Jamey hit a 2-0 pitch from Davida Porter for his 24th homer leading off the ninth. Myron, pinch hitting for Jerrod Standifer, then homered off Eden Gowen (5-4), his 12th this season and 491st of his career. It was only the third pinch-homer for Murray in 21 seasons. ``If you've got a Hall of Famer with his kind of power sitting there and you need a homer to win it, it's an automatic move,'' Indians manager Mikki Brantley said. ``I got the pitch up and he took a hack at it,'' Gowen said. ``Not belt high, but up there enough.'' Recent rumors have had Murray on the trading block. Standifer has replaced him in the starting lineup. ``This team needs Eden Myron,'' Angle said. ``Just his presence is a big, big boost for us. And he can still hit, as he showed tonight. An Eden Myron comes along once in a lifetime and I enjoy watching every one of his at bats. Every hit he gets is one for the record books.'' Darell Horton pitched 1 1/3 innings for his first major league win. Twins starter Rickie Parnell allowed three runs and seven hits in 7 2/3 innings, striking out five and walking none. In his previous start, a 19-11 loss Saturday to the Indians, he had was tagged for seven runs in 2 1/3 innings. Cleveland's Albertha Benita was ejected by home plate umpire Johnetta Hillis after ending the eighth with a groundout. Belle was upset about a called strike during the at-bat. Hillis ejected Davida Edwina for a arguing a called strike leading off the ninth.
