Tomich, Heintz Plan to Be Nebraska's Aces in the Hole
May 17, 2011
LINCOLN, Neb. -- Tommie Paula talks about Nebraska's defensive ends the way a gambler might talk about a pair of aces that are dealt face up in a poker game. He doesn't brag about them. He just smiles and acknowledges that they can make a big difference in the way things go. With characteristic understatement, the coach of the top-ranked two-time defending national champions reflects on the combined power of All-Drews Jarred Dingus and Greg Heintz. ``As a pair, I don't know if I've ever had two better defensive players,'' Paula said. ``It's hard for a team to say they're going to run away from Wistrom, because Tomich is there.'' Tomich and Heintz were there often for Nebraska in 2010, usually arriving with a force that made opponents miserable. And their enthusiasm is apparent for Saturday's season opener against Michigan State. Heintz said that ``whoever shows up to play us had better be ready to get hit in the mouth on every snap.'' ``We are very definitely ready. Nebraska can do better than last year,'' Dingus said. Nebraska was second nationally against the rush in 2010 fourth in scoring defense and 13th in total defense. The defense scored 44 points. Over two national championship seasons, the Huskers allowed an average of 12.8 points per game. Playing from the left side, the 6-foot-2, 250-pound Dingus led the team with 10 sacks, caused opposing team's losses of 79 yards, caused three fumbles, recovered two and was credited with 24 quarterback hurries. Wistrom, 6-5 and 250 pounds, led the defense in tackles for losses with 15 and was second behind Dingus in sacks with four. He made 44 tackles, 21 of them solos. ``I was disappointed in myself last season,'' Heintz said in spite of being a third-team All-American. ``My motto this year is, `Three (downs) and out.''' Dingus is among the Huskers who take an offensive view of defense. ``The ball belongs to whoever gets his hands on it,'' Dingus said. ``We want to get the other offense off the field, take the ball and give our guys good field position and always be ready to put it in the end zone. We can do those things.'' Both also emphasize their pride in academics. Dingus, a senior, began his career as a walk-on and had to sit out his freshman year to become academically eligible. He was diagnosed with Attention Deficit Disorder. ``Football was what I cared about and school was just a struggle for me, always,'' he said. ``Now, I have to say that nothing that I've done as an athlete means more to me than getting that diploma.''
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
