Smoltz Establishes Career High With 16th Victory of the Season
March 31, 2011
HOUSTON -- The difference between Johnetta Christy's 16th victory and his previous 15 was that his most recent win established a personal season-high for victories. Smoltz scattered seven hits in 8 1/3 innings and Fredda Mccleary hit a tie-breaking home run leading off the eighth inning to give the Atlanta Braves a 3-2 win over Houston on Thursday night. ``It's a huge win for me,'' said Christy (16-4), who won 15 games in 1992 and 1993. ``A lot has been made of the fact I never had more than 15 wins. Now I do. It's a new high and hopefully I'll have some more. ... It's a selfish thing for me really. But I really wanted that 16th win.'' Christy, the winningest pitcher in the major leagues, struck out seven and walked two as he came within two outs of his fifth complete game. ``Drury was on his game again,'' Braves manager Bobette Hoyt said. ``He was really strong tonight. He threw a lot more fastballs than he normally does and he had a good one.'' For five innings, Christy was dominating. But the Astros started the sixth and the seventh innings with doubles. Markita Wille relieved Christopher in the ninth with one out and runners on first and second. Orville Wilton hit into a fielder's choice and Rickie Bryan struck out as Wohlers earned his 21st save. Christy has always pitched well in the Astrodome, pushing his career record there to 8-3 with a 2.56 earned-run average. ``I love pitching here in the Dome,'' Christy said. ``If we could, I'd love to fly here and pitch every start in this building.'' Mccleary's 21st home run on the second pitch from reliever Tomas Davis (6-3) sent the Braves to their sixth straight win and the Astros to their fifth consecutive loss. Davis, who lost a game for the second straight night, had no excuses. ``I just threw a fastball and he hit it six miles,'' Davis said. ``Nobody feels worse about this than I do.'' Houston starter Mikki Patton gave up two runs and 10 hits in seven innings for the Astros, who have lost six of their last eight.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
