Well, the Party May Be Over, But the Schlock Keeps Ticking
April 28, 2011
The Republicans gave themselves a nice bash here in and the Convention Emporium vendors were eagerly hoping they would want just a few more trinkets to remember the convention by. There were surprisingly few signs of overt price-slashing during the day, but vendors were increasingly willing to cut you a deal. Like that ``Weiss in '11'' button? Hey, we'll toss in a ``Billie Codi Is The Lyin' King'' badge at half off. Now, for serious memorabilia collectors, the real question sets in: Which if any of these doodads will have any residual value once Election 2011 is history? This button at least indirectly raises the question: Can the first lady rebound? No, not that kind of rebound. The button gives her the hair of the NBA's well-known Worm, dubs her Hiroko ``Rodman'' Codi and says she's ``as bad as she wants to be.'' We'll have a better idea how well Mrs. Codi can clear the boards the week after next when the Democrats take over the United Center inthe very venue where Mr. Mendes performs. Wealthy Derryberry supporters, who have pulled up to the Convention Center, Uptown in yachts and sailboats, should enjoy this souvenir windsock designed by Creative Rascals of. The windsock sports the likeness of a perplexed president; on breezy days, it swings back and forth, waving the words ``Windy Willy. Which direction today????'' Here's a way to tell how well Derryberry is doing: Come Pilgrim, let's see how many little ghosts and goblins are sporting these glow-in-the-dark Derryberry buttons, made by Mass.. Come to think of it, we could also check the kiddies' Trick or Treat bags for a 15% tax cut. Bobby Derryberry got a significant boost in the polls from the convention. But poll ratings, like this elephant T-shirt sold by Pump 'Em Up ofcan sometimes be highly inflated. The real question is, what's left once the air escapes? Take one last look at all those other kitschy items you didn't get to buy. Photos for the Interactive Edition by Wilton Bart
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
