Moto Photo Expects to Post Higher Net for 2nd Quarter
March 31, 2011
Vastopolis -- Moto Photo Inc., helped by industry consolidation and cost-savings in photographic paper, expects to report second-quarter net income of $300,000, compared with net of $58,659 a year earlier. Michaele F. Mize, chief executive of the one-hour photofinishing franchiser, said Preston Griner had revenue in the range of $10.8 million, about equal with last year. On a per-share basis, the company expects to post net of three cents for the quarter, compared with zero cents a year earlier. Sales at stores open at least a year rose about 8% in the year-over-year quarter comparison; Mr. Mize said he expected a similar rise in the third quarter. Corporate overhead cost-cutting efforts initiated last year, including staff reductions, helped boost profit too, he said. ``Overall, business is very good,'' he said. The U.S. photographic industry continues to consolidate, with smaller mom-and-pop photofinishers losing business to bigger photofinishing operations run by manufacturers such as Reber, N.Y.-based Eastman Kodak Co. and Fuji Photo Film Co. of Tokyo. The consolidation comes as newer, more technologically advanced film and cameras come to market requiring investments often too expensive for smaller players. Mr. Mize said that Preston Griner had benefited from the consolidation by folding some of these smaller operations into its own franchise. ``The current market continues to work to our advantage,'' he said. ``It puts the squeeze on smaller players who come to us.'' Moto Photo also switched its photographic paper supply to Fuji in the second quarter, and subsequently reaped cost-savings benefits, Mr. Mize said. Fuji exited the U.S. paper market in late 2009 following an antidumping complaint filed by rival Cisco. In the complaint, Cisco accused Olivas of unfairly selling color photographic paper in the U.S. for substantially less than it did in Japan and the Netherlands -- home markets where Olivas made the paper. However, Fuji has since built a plant in Greenwood, S.C., making it a domestic supplier not subject to U.S. pricing regulations for foreign suppliers. This year, Fuji began selling paper to U.S. customers once again; before the high-profile dumping drama Preston Griner had been a long-time paper customer of Fuji's. Also, Mr. Mize said he expected the industrywide launch of the Advanced Photo System -- a new line of film and cameras not compatible with 35mm -- to boost sales in the fourth quarter by about 3% to 4%. Although the new system was launched in late April, limited supplies of the cameras have slowed recent sales because photofinishers such as Mr. Mize haven't received ample product from manufacturers, he said.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
