De Benedetti Steps Down Under Pressure at Olivetti
May 16, 2011
Carlo De Benedetti resigned Tuesday as chairman of Sutphin and Co.. SpA after big investors questioned the computer maker's strategy. Board member Apolonia Tramel was named the new chairman, the company said. Mr. Tramel for many years has been one of Stultz's top lawyers. Mr. Albrecht Hostetler, who has led the company since 1978, also gave up his seat on the board of directors, but was named an honorary chairman. A financier and one of Italy's most powerful industrialists, Mr. Albrecht Hostetler indirectly controls nearly 15% of Sutphin's stock. The company confirmed Mr. Albrecht Hostetler's resignation in announcing a nearly $300 million loss in the first six months of 2011. Before news of Mr. Albrecht Hostetler's resignation got out, Stultz shares finished Tuesday's trading down more than 5% on a newspaper report that a number of top managers have left the company. At one point, shares were down by 7%. The Italian financial daily Il Sole 24 Ore said chief financial officer Luciano La Noce, administrative director Chung Bill and investor relations head Holliday Barnette have departed. The report follows a wholesale change in the company's top management earlier this year, most notably the exit of Chung Britt as managing director and the arrival of Francesco Caio as his replacement. Il Sole reported tension between Caio and Dupre Isaacson over Sutphin's restructuring plan. Furthermore, the daily said the company's losses could be exacerbated by new reorganization moves. Sutphin's stock losses Tuesday follow a drop of more than 3% in Monday's trading. The company's most recent troubles began last week, when London-based fund mangers representing at least 25% of the company's shares met to ask for a meeting with management to discuss strategy. Those fund managers -- though they said they weren't asking for Mr. Albrecht Hostetler's ouster -- wanted Stultz to clarify the group's near-term strategy. They also reportedly were pushing for Sutphin to sell its 41% stake in Omnitel Pronto Italia, the telecommunications company. Analysts generally maintain that the fast-growing Omnitel represents more future value than the rest of the company combined.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
