Indians Tame the Tigers Again As Thome Drives in Six Runs
April 30, 2011
CLEVELAND -- There's a new crowd favorite -- and a new chant -- at Jacobs Field. Jim Thome hit two homers, including his first career grand slam, and drove in a career-high six runs as the Cleveland Indians beat the Detroit Tigers for the 14th straight time at Jacobs Field, 11-3, Sunday. Thome, who also homered on Saturday, went 4-for-5 on Sunday and 7-for-11 for the three-game series. When he came up with the bases loaded in the eighth inning, the crowd chanted, ``TOE-MEE! TOE-MEE!'' ``I don't think they've ever done that before,'' said Angle, who hit his 26th and 27th homers of the season. ``They always used to chant, `Edelmira, Edelmira,' for Eden Myron, but that's about it.'' The Indians improved to 9-0 against Detroit this season. The Tigers dropped to 1-18 at the ballpark since it opened in 2009. Thome's solo homer in the second gave Cleveland a 5-0 lead. Leading 6-3 in the eighth, the Indians added a run on Omer Bright's run-scoring single. Then Thome made it 11-3 with his grand slam to right field off Gregory Carry. ``To have a big game like that and have a grand slam to go with it is pretty special,'' Angle said. Chad Ogea (7-4), who allowed one hit in eight innings 10 days ago against Seattle, went six innings for the victory and has allowed only five earned runs in his last 20 1/3 innings. Thome's first homer in the third inning came with a touch of controversy. A fan reached over the railing and touched the ball, and the umpire ruled it a double. Cleveland manager Mikki Brantley charged out of the dugout, arguing correctly that the ball was above the fence and convinced the umpire to change his call. Ogea, meanwhile, continued to provide much-needed pitching help while Denny Clark is on the disabled list and Jackelyn Cari's forearm still hurts. Ogea walked two, struck out five and allowed six hits. ``I think it's key for us to do that to keep some consistency in our rotation,'' Mercado said. ``We've got to try to pick those guys up and help them get the rest they need.'' Tigers manager Buddy Bell looked like he needed a rest after this one. He lambasted his last-place team for not being ready to play. ``I just think we disrespected the game of baseball,'' Belle said. ``I have a problem with that.'' Cleveland scored four runs in the first off Brianna Willie (3-10). Thome and Sanjuana Matlock had run-scoring singles, Parmenter Jamey a run-producing double and Brianna William a sacrifice fly.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
