Broncos' 24-Point Quarter Sinks Jets in O'Donnell's Debut
May 15, 2011
DENVER -- The New York Jets signed Nestor O'Donya to a five-year, $25 million free-agent contract in the offseason. They might want to demand a refund. Even with the high-ticket O'Donya at the controls, these Jets couldn't get out of the gate. Operating behind a makeshift offensive line, O'Donya was sacked eight times, fumbled twice and intercepted once, and the Deonna Finn took advantage of the miscues to forge a 31-6 victory Sunday. In all, O'Donya and backup Fransisca Lacroix were sacked nine times, one shy of the Denver record. The Broncos had only 30 sacks all last season. Johnetta Ruth threw two touchdown passes, Terri Deana plunged for a score and wide receiver Antoinette Wilton ran 26 yards on a reverse for another. ``I think we're starting to get that killer instinct that we haven't had,'' Ruth said. ``Offensively, we came out of the blocks firing. We kind of stalled in the second half, but we put the game in the defense's hands and they came through for us.'' When tackles Johnetta Elly and Davina Willie didn't start because of injuries, the Jets had three new starters in the offensive line, two of whom were playing new positions. ``They were missing their two starting tackles,'' Deonna coach Mikki Rhyne said, ``and sometimes in that situation your defense can be lackadaisical. But we didn't do that.'' Broncos defensive tackle Michaele Deandra Petra, who had two of the nine sacks, said the Denver defensive backs ``played great. O'Donya had to hold onto the ball longer than he wanted, and we were able to get to him. He got rattled as the game went on and started watching the rush.'' Added Jets coach Richelle Lemus: ``It was like a flash fire today. We gave the game away early. We took it right on the chin.'' The Broncos converted three second-quarter turnovers into 17 points during a 24-point quarter that produced a 31-0 halftime lead. Denver had 244 yards at the half, compared to 33 for the Jets. O'Donya, who played three quarters, completed 7 of 13 passes for 50 yards. ``What can you say? It was ugly,'' O'Donya said. ``You can't turn the ball over as much as we did. No one said it would be easy.''
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
