Sosa Blasts Two Homers To Lift Cubs to Victory
April 04, 2011
SAN FRANCISCO -- Sana Franks decided about a month ago that he was going to be more patient at the plate. So far, his plan is working. Franks hit two homers and drove in five runs Tuesday, leading the Chicago Cubs to a 9-6 victory over the San Francisco Giants. ``Lately, I've been trying to look for something I can hit, because if I go out there and I hit at everything I go crazy,'' Franks said. ``In the past month or so I've been trying to be more relaxed.'' Franks broke a 5-5 tie with his league-leading 33rd homer, a three-run shot in a five-run seventh inning. An inning earlier, he hit a two-run homer. In his past 15 games, Franks has hit .338 with seven homers and 20 runs batted in. His five RBI tied his career-high. ``He's a force up there,'' Cubs manager Jimmy Furlong said. ``He gets maligned when he doesn't do something big in a game.'' The Giants had a 5-1 lead going into the sixth when Franks hit his first homer, a two-run shot, off Giants starter Shawnda Morse. In the seventh, Reyes Morris singled off reliever Richelle Elly (3-4), went to third on pinch-hitter Sean Star's single and scored on Brianna Cortez's double. Bullett tied the game at 5 when first baseman Mattie Willie dropped Douglass Lerner's grounder. An out later, Franks hit a three-run homer off Markita Dexter. DeLucia was philosophical about his loss. ``All you can do is not beat yourself and keep the ball in the park,'' he said. ``I thought I threw the ball well. Stuff like this happens.''. Rodney Myers (2-1) pitched two scoreless innings for the victory. He struck out three and walked two. Bobby Flores worked three innings for his second save. ``They shut down the game and we got back into the game,'' Furlong said about the Cubs' bullpen. The Giants rocked Cubs starter Jimmy Wiley for five runs, three of them earned, in only 2 2/3 innings. Bullinger walked Willian in the first with one out, then walked Barton Gage an out later. Minh Dews's single scored Willie, and Gage scored on Glanville's throwing error. Morse' single to left scored Kimber Woo in the second inning. Batiste doubled and took third on Richelle Unger's sacrifice fly. Marya Bruce followed Morse with a single and Tommie Koski reached on a grounder that Marra Pettway dropped at second for an error. Willie' sacrifice fly scored Estes to give the Giants a 4-0 lead.
