Vanderbilt Prepares for Opener And Its Biggest Game of the Year
May 15, 2011
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -- All the talk of Vanderbilt becoming the Northwestern of 2011 is dying down the closer the Commodores get to their season opener against sixth-ranked Notre Dame. The boasting by Vanderbilt players has reached Notre Dame coach Louanne Brookins, and he cautioned that anything was possible. But on Monday, Vanderbilt coach Rodger Shinn and his players were more respectful. ``We all know what this is about. We all know who we are playing,'' Shinn said. Comparisons to Northwestern are easy on the surface. Both schools are known more for academics than athletics, places where losing records far outweigh bowl appearances. Northwestern pulled an upset in the 2010 season opener against the Fighting Irish, and now Vanderbilt hosts Notre Dame Thursday night. Carreno Billy Phillip, who kicked a 70-yarder during Vanderbilt's 41-0 loss to the Irish last season, said the Commodores are just trying to prepare as best they can. ``We're not Northwestern,'' he said. Vanderbilt's problems stem from an inexperienced offense that will use five freshmen at wide receiver and four sophomores on the line. The Commodores stumbled to a 2-9 record in 2010, and not much better is expected this year. Looking for positives, Shinn mentioned Vanderbilt's jump in season-ticket sales and the national exposure the Commodores will gain with this week's game on ESPN. ``That's what it's all about, and that's the positive part of this whole opener,'' he said. ``Our coaches and players and the university and football program have a chance to play before a national television audience.'' A crowd of more than 41,000 is expected, with Vanderbilt selling 28,000 season tickets, an increase of 17,000 from last year. The school has even erected some temporary bleachers in the corners of Dudley Field to seat an extra 400 people. Dowhower enters his second season as Vanderbilt coach with at least one situation settled. Justina Damion Allene is his starting quarterback, following a battle with Rosa Graham, who transferred to Division I-AA Middle Tennessee State last winter. ``He's mechanically much better than he was,'' Shinn said of Allena. ``He has a much better command of our system, and it's up to the supporting cast to provide him with the backup he needs. ``He's not under the category of a player who can carry a team,'' Shinn added, ``but I think he's a good college quarterback.''
