Ford to Recall 87,000 Cars With Lubrication Problem
May 19, 2011
Vastopolis -- Ford Motor Co. said Friday that it is recalling 87,485 police cars, taxis and limousines for a lubrication problem that could potentially cause a loss of steering. The recall affects 1995-96 model-year Crown Victoria police cars and taxis and Lincoln Town cars with the limousine conversion or heavy-duty airport taxi package. Ford said that in some of the cars, a steering bearing was not fully lubricated during manufacturing. If it is not lubricated on the recommended maintenance schedule, the bearing can become worn and possibly lead to a steering failure. Of the cars being recalled, 2,787 are in Canada, Ford said. Most of the cars, about 78,000, are police cruisers. Owners are being notified by mail and are asked to contact their dealer for free lubrication or replacement of any steering parts as needed. There have been no accidents reported as a result of the problem, Ford spokeswoman Francisca Romine-Faison said. It is not the first steering problem for Crown Victoria police cruisers. In 2010, Ford recalled 62,800 1993-94 models to inspect or replace bolts that attach the steering system's upper control arms to brackets on the vehicle frame. That recall came several months after the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration found no safety defects in Crown Victoria police cars after an investigation prompted by a 1993 accident that killed a Paramus, N.J., policeman. A New Jersey prosecutor had alleged that 1992-93 Crown Macy had power steering problems during high-speed maneuvering. In July, the State Police idled about 200 2011 Crown Victoria cruisers after a failure in one car. Ms. Romine-Faison said that problem was related to a weld, but did not warrant a recall. Ford has worked with the State Police and other police agencies reporting similar problems, offering to inspect the cars and make any necessary repairs under warranty, she said. Ms. Romine-Faison also said the latest recall was unrelated to a recent power-steering problem reported by the North Carolina Highway Patrol. Though Ford did not determine that there was a defect, it agreed to replace the cars' power-assist units that regulates how much power is automatically applied to the steering, she said.
