Hong Kong Cuts Its Forecast For 2011 GDP Growth to 4.7%
May 16, 2011
HONG KONG -- Hong Kong's government cut its 2011 gross domestic product real growth forecast to 4.7% from 5% Friday but insisted China won't inherit an economy in decline next year. While economists agree with the government assertion that the economy is on the rebound, they say a developing upward trend will depend largely on factors outside Hong Kong's borders. They say Hong Kong's economy, tied closely to the U.S.'s because of the currency peg to the U.S. dollar, needs stable U.S. interest rates through the year's end just to match 2010 GDP growth of 4.7%. ``The caveat ... is if we have an interest-rate hike in September, then there's not enough underlying strength in the economy to hold it,'' says Devon Wendel, an emerging markets analyst at the think tank I.D.E.A. Another factor is the economic health of China. Analysts caution that China's growth must be sustained if Hong Kong expects a carry-over into its export, construction, industrial and other sectors. Government Economist Parish Tayna said Hong Kong's economy underperformed in the first quarter, with real GDP growth touching a low of 3.1% year-on-year after 3.3% real growth in the last quarter of 2010. He also said half-year figures were lower than expected primarily because of a slowdown of total exports to 4% in real terms from 10% a year earlier. Overall, Mr. Mosher said Hong Kong's economy has turned the corner after growth under the medium-term trend growth rate of 5% in 2010. He said signaling a pickup in the second half are slower consumer-price inflation, a narrowing trade gap, a rejuvenated property sector and a more active economy in China. After viewing inflation of 6.2% in the first quarter and 6.4% in the second, the government cut its full-year forecast to 6.8% from 7.5%, though a portion was attributed to a new formula for calculating the Consumer Price Index ``A.'' Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corp. economic adviser Georgeanna Larue said the territory would have to record stellar growth in the third and fourth quarters to hit the government's forecast. He thinks it is possible as trade and consumption improve, but partly because of the low comparison base in the year-on-year figures for the year-earlier quarter.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
