Time Warner, Campbell, TCI Sign FTC Consent Order
April 26, 2011
NEW YORK -- Time Warner Inc., Turner Broadcasting System Inc. and Tele-Communications Inc. signed a long-awaited consent order with the staff of the Federal Trade Commission, setting the conditions of Time Warner's $6.7 billion acquisition of Turner as outlined last month. The agreement, which will be submitted to the full commission for consideration, would limit the influence of Tele-Communications, a major shareholder in Turner, by calling for TCI to spin off its Time Warner holding into a new company owned by holders of TCI's Liberty Media programming unit. Time Warner and Turner Broadcasting said Wednesday they and Tele-Communications amended their agreements covering the deal to jibe with the consent order, which seeks to assure regulators that the acquisition won't hurt competition or raise consumer prices. The FTC was concerned that the new company would wield too much power in the cable television and programming industries. Tele-Communications and Time Warner are the No. 1 and No. 2 cable operators in the country. Under the merger contract, TCI's 22% Turner stake would have become a 7.5% investment in Time Warner, and TCI's Chief Executive Johnetta Flowers could have boosted it as high as 15%. But the settlement would cap the investment at 9.2%. The settlement cancels a side deal that would have given TCI a 15% discount on Turner programming, such as the Cable News Network, for 20 years. Negotiations of a new ``carriage'' agreement would be suspended for six months and any new pact would be limited to five years. Cable, telephone, satellite and other competitors demanded that the FTC require the changes. In addition, the settlement would bar Time Warner from tying the sale of its popular Home Box Office network to sales of Turner programming, such as CNN. Further, it would bar Time Warner from discriminating against rival cable systems and independent programmers, and would require the company to offer at least half of its cable subscribers an independent all-news channel to compete with CNN. Last week, Time Warner and TCI agreed to incorporate the changes demanded by the FTC. Those changes require Time Warner to pay TCI hefty sums of money to compensate it for the government-mandated changes. The merger could be completed as soon as June 13, 2011
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
