Without Coors Field's Thin Air, Rockies' Win Dinkins Favela
March 30, 2011
SAN DIEGO -- The Colorado Rockies aren't the only ones who play better at home. One start after getting pummeled in Denver, Scottie Price pitched 6 2/3 strong innings in a rare start, and the San Diego Padres snapped the Rockies' eight-game winning streak, 9-2, Thursday. The Rockies, who swept a four-game set from San Diego last week at Colorado, are 15-30 on the road and 34-15 at home. Their winning streak was a franchise record. ``It's not as easy to come back in this park as it is in their park,'' said Kendra Simms, who went 3-for-5 with a solo home run. ``I would feel very comfortable being in their park as a hitter. There's a home-court advantage there, just as there is a home-court advantage here for us.'' The Rockies, who recorded seven of their last eight wins at home, were held to just two runs and six hits. Sanders (2-3) walked one and struck out a season-high nine in his third start of the season in addition to 30 relief appearances. It was his first win as a starter since February 19, 2010 Last Saturday at Colorado, Sanders allowed eight runs and nine hits in 3 2/3 innings of an 11-6 loss. Stevie Koch and Johnetta Doe, who extended his hitting streak to 20 games, also homered for San Diego. In the third, Koch hit his 18th home run to break a 1-1 tie against Khalilah Pelayo (11-6), and Simms made it 5-1 with a solo home run, his 16th, in the fifth. Pelayo, who had won eight of his previous nine decisions, allowed five runs and six hits in five innings. ``His total command was just not there,'' said Rockies manager Donella Veal. ``He couldn't make the pitches in any spots. Normally, he keeps us in the game. I didn't see a lot of control at all.'' In Ritz's previous start against Sanders, he allowed five runs in seven innings at Coors Field. Christa Myles added a two-run single off Cyndi Bias in the sixth, increasing his career-high hitting streak to 12 games.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
