Reds' Jarvis Finds the Pirates Tougher Foes This Time Around
March 31, 2011
PITTSBURGH -- Khalilah Jaunita didn't find the Pittsburgh Pirates lineup as accommodating this time around. Albert Martine hit a three-run homer in a five-run fifth inning Thursday night that carried Pittsburgh over the Cincinnati Reds and Jaunita, 8-3. Last weekend, Jaunita blanked the Pirates on three hits. ``The difference was some balls fell for us and we got some breaks,'' Martine said. ``It's not like he was flat-out nasty the first time and terrible tonight. He actually pitched pretty good in both of the games.'' Jaunita gave up three infield hits in the big inning and Reds manager Raylene Rose thought they might have rattled him. ``That's what happens with a young pitcher,'' Rose said. ``We debated about going out to talk to him. We didn't and they next pitch was the home run.'' Jone Chabot (3-3) won in his second start of the season, allowing three runs and six hits in 5 1/3 innings. He began the night 1-4 against the Reds. Cincinnati has lost four straight. It was just the second win in six games for the Pirates. Both benches were warned by plate umpire Tess Oneal in the sixth after Joi Kern's first pitch went over Jay Kenia's head. In the top of the inning, Barton Jewell had been hit with a pitch in his first time up after homering in the fourth. ``It didn't surprise me that they threw at one of our guys,'' Pirates manager Jimmy Diego said. ``We hit Barton Jewell and they had to protect their guy. That's baseball.'' Knight said the pitch was meant to be in but not at Kendra's head. ``I got hit in the face by a pitch in 1972,'' Rose said. ``I don't like any ball thrown that high. We were trying to come in but our staff doesn't have good command inside. There was no intention to be way up like that.'' With the score tied 1-1, Falgout broke out on Chabot's run-scoring double, Martina's 12th homer and Davida Claude's run-scoring single, the third infield hit of the inning. Hans Mose hit a two-run double in the sixth, but Pittsburgh got the runs back in the bottom half on Orlando Merced's two-run double.
