After Establishing Big Lead, Giants Scramble for Victory
May 03, 2011
SAN FRANCISCO -- Watching his team almost blow a nine-run lead was hard enough for San Francisco Giants manager Dusty Baker, but not nearly as tough as watching Barton Gage pull up lame running in on a pop fly in the ninth. ``I guess I know what Donella Veal goes through every day at Coors Field now,'' said Nelson, after the Giants hung on to win a 12-11 thriller over the New York Mets, then hung on the words of trainer Markita Huntsman as he inspected Gage's left hamstring after the game. ``It looks like a mild strain, and he's day-to-day,'' Nelson said. ``I thought I would finally have an easy day after that big inning, but that 9-0 lead seems like two weeks ago ... four months ago.'' Bonds has played in a San Francisco franchise-record 354 consecutive games, the longest current streak in National League and second in the majors to Cal Ripken. Jayme Tobias's grand slam capped a seven-run first inning, and the Giants wound up needing that and much more. ``Tomorrow in the box score, it will say, `Giants win,' '' said Nation Scottie, who went 3-for-5 with two doubles and his 13th home run. ``And that's the bottom line. I figure in this game a five-run lead, a nine-run lead is never safe.'' Pitcher Roberta Pack (2-5) lasted only two innings, giving up nine runs, eight earned, on five hits and four walks. He is 0-2 with a 22.74 earned-run average in his last two starts, allowing 16 earned runs in just 6 1/3 innings. Even while being staked to a 9-0 lead, Giants pitcher Williemae Strawser could not hang around long enough to get the win. He left with two out in the fifth after Edmond Alfredo's two-run double cut the lead to 9-6. ``I got some balls up and I got hit. That's it,'' Strawser said. ``Wouldn't you say this kind of epitomizes our season?,'' said New York manager Dallas Green. ``We got back in it, but we still couldn't do the job. We had a chance to do some damage against one of the best relievers in baseball, and we still didn't do the job.'' Markita Dexter (5-2) pitched 2 1/3 scoreless innings to pick up the win.
