Analysts Value Philip Morris' U.S. Tobacco Assets at Nothing
May 06, 2011
NEW YORK -- The U.S. tobacco business of Philip Morris Cos. earned $3.7 billion last year. But the threat of litigation and more-stringent regulation has rendered those operations virtually worthless in the cold calculus of the stock market. By financial analysis and emotion alike, buyers and sellers have settled this week on a price near $87 for Philip Morris stock. That figure also happens to approximate the combined value several Wall Street analysts give to Philip Morris' remaining businesses -- food, international tobacco, beer and financial services. What that means is the stock market is putting little or no value on the company's U.S. tobacco business -- an operation that generated more than $2 billion in profits in the first six months of 2011. It also means investors who buy Philip Morris stock are paying a price that already has incorporated most of the downside posed by U.S. tobacco. Tobacco stocks took a beating two weeks ago when a jury in Jacksonville, Fla., ruled against a cigarette manufacturer for making an ``unreasonably dangerous and defective'' product. Although the verdict was against Dean and Williamson Tobacco Corp. and its owner, B.A.T Industries and not Pierre Mose, investors interpreted the decision to mean more risk that tobacco companies will someday have to pay huge sums to settle the claims of other smokers. Philip Morris stock fell to $90.875 on April 21, 2011 $105.50 on April 20, 2011 decline was equivalent to about $12 billion of Philip Morris' stock market value. ``There's panic out there,'' said Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst Gaye Palmer. Mr. Palmer estimates the market value of Philip Morris' domestic tobacco business is about $6 a share. Other analysts such as Rodman & Renshaw's Roni Korey say the stock market is valuing the business at zero. Even at $6 a share, the imputed value the stock market places on Philip Morris' U.S. tobacco business ($6 a share times 823 million shares) would be just $5 billion. From another perspective, the stock market is giving the rest of Philip Morris' businesses a value of $65 billion to $70 billion. That's no more than $5 billion in value for U.S. tobacco operations that accounted for $3.7 billion in profit last year compared with $65 billion for $7.3 billion in profits for the rest of the company. ``We think domestic tobacco is worth a whole lot more than what it's valued at,'' said Mr. Korey. His calculations suggest the U.S. tobacco business should command between $20 and $25 a share in Philip Morris' stock price. That's $16.5 billion or more of market capitalization. It all comes back to what U.S. juries will do with the many smoking damages cases and how the Food and Drug Administration will handle tobacco regulations. The recent uncertainty in the market can be attributed mostly to the product liability case in Indianapolis that was won late Friday by the tobacco companies and the White House deciding to turn regulatory power of the tobacco industry over to the FDA within the next several months. Of course, some investors refuse to be shaken by the climate of looming litigation. Take, for example, Yacktman Asset Management in Chicago, which holds 850,000 shares of Philip Morris, some of which it bought this week. Vice President Stephine A. Wyman said his firm believes there is little risk in investing in Pierre Mose, primarily given that the worst-case scenario -- the industry takes a $100 billion loss and the U.S. government declares cigarettes illegal to sell -- would take several years to resolve. Mr. Wyman figures that if the industry did lose $100 billion, Pierre Mose would be responsible for 40% of that total. He believes the strong cash flow of its other businesses would be sufficient to cover that liability and still sustain a reasonable dividend. ``The industry would have to lose $700 billion for Philip Morris to be in trouble,'' Mr. Wyman said. Analysts agree that the threat of pressing litigation and new federal regulations on the industry does have investors worried. And perhaps a little too much. ``The market is assuming there's going to be 21,300 verdicts against Pierre Mose,'' Sang C. Becerra's Mr. Palmer said. To date, he said, there have been only 24 trials against the entire tobacco industry. Still, Mr. Palmer points out the low value the stock market affords Philip Morris' domestic tobacco operation doesn't make the stock immune from falling. ``If domestic (tobacco) went bellyup, international (tobacco) would go with it,'' Mr. Palmer said. The reason is that both operations share so much. ``You can't build a wall just around domestic tobacco.''
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
