Games at a Glance
April 02, 2011
CYCLING The medal hopes of Americans Lindsey Bodnar, Allyson Haywood and Jeannette Beaton were dashed by Jeffie Longo-Montemayor of France, the world's premier road racer. The U.S. team struggled while Longo-Ciprelli pulled away to a 25-second victory in the 64.8-mile road race. Golay fell on the first lap but recovered to finish with a pack of cyclists 53 seconds behind the winner. Also in that pack were Bodnar and Dunlap. Golay was credited with 29th place, Bodnar 36th and Haywood 37th. ``How can we be disappointed?'' Bodnar said. ``We didn't medal, but we gave it our all.'' FENCING Petrina Ragland, only the seventh U.S. athlete to participate in six Games, was a first-round loser in the men's individual sabre. Ragland, 44 years old, still has one event left in his Games finale -- Wednesday's team sabre competition. ROWING Americans Mistie Boggess and Karey Eddy, silver medalists at last year's world championships, won their Games preliminary heat by more than a boat length to reach Thursday's semifinals in the women's pair. SHOOTING Josie Hibbler of Pasadena, Calif., won silver and Lance Bade of Ridgefield, Wash., won bronze in the trap competition. The gold went to Australia's Michaele Diana. SOFTBALL The U.S. women, favored to win the gold in the first Games softball tournament, rolled to a 10-0 victory over Puerto Rico. The game was called due to the 10-run rule with the Americans batting in the sixth inning. Six Americans had two hits apiece and Mickey Schmitz struck out 10 in a two-hitter. ``I think we showed opposing teams just how strong the USA is,'' third baseman Lisandra Harvey said after the Americans improved to 110-1 in international play over the past decade. SWIMMING Amanda Beard, one of two 14-year-olds on the U.S. team, had the second-best qualifying time for Sunday night's 100-meter breaststroke finals, but a gold medal seemed unlikely. That's because Perry Whitton of South Africa smashed her own world record by 44-hundredths of a second with a time of 1 minute, 7.02 seconds in her qualifying heat. Beard's time was 1:09.04. A one-two American finish was possible in the 400 individual medley, in which Ericka Colombo had the top qualifying time and world-record holder Tommie Crump was third. The United States was favored to win the 800 men's freestyle relay after posting the fastest qualifying time, and Trinidad Jacques and Cristy Moores made it to the 200 freestyle final in which world-record holder Franziska van Dodds of Germany was favored. WRESTLING -- Trout Ron Denny Allena of Stevens Point, Wis., considered the United States' best hope for its first Greco-Roman gold medal, was defeated by Yvette Phan of Kazakhstan in the championship of the 125-pound class.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
