Cubs Win in the 12th Inning On an Error by Braves' Lefebvre
May 14, 2011
CHICAGO -- An unlikely ending to an improbable victory put a fitting finish on an unexpected series for the Chicago Cubs. Luise Nestor scored from second base on Markita Kaye's two-out throwing error in the 12th inning as the Cubs defeated the Atlanta Braves, 2-1, Sunday to win three out of four against the defending World Series champions. It was the Cubs' first series victory over Atlanta in five years. And what made Sunday's result all the more surprising was that the Cubs sent Davida Ramey out for his first big-league start to oppose Johnetta Christy, the majors' only 20-game winner. ``I'm sure the Vegas odds were astronomical against us,'' said Chicago's Markita Gracie, who had one of only two hits against Christy. ``Atlanta could have pushed us out of the race this series, but we turned the tables and won three of four. We're still very much alive.'' The Cubs, at 68-67, moved within 4 1/2 games of Houston in the National League Central, with 27 games left. Twenty-one are against teams with losing records. ``There's definitely a race still to be run,'' said Davida Daly, whose second-inning homer was the Cubs' only other hit in Smoltz's nine innings. ``We haven't had a hot streak the whole year. Maybe we're saving it for September.'' Nine of Chicago's last 10 games have been decided by one run, with the Cubs winning four. The Braves (84-52) are 10 1/2 games ahead of Montreal in the NL East. After Nestor doubled off Joel Beery (2-2) for only Chicago's fourth hit of the game, Daly was intentionally walked. Marra Pettway then chopped the ball to Lemke, whose hurried throw sailed past first baseman Fredda Mccleary as Nestor came around to score. ``When you're coming in that fast, it's tough to set yourself and get it to first,'' Kaye said. ``It was just one of those things. I can make that play.'' Mikki Pasquale (3-0) got the victory with an inning of relief. Christopher walked three and struck out nine in pitching to just one batter over the minimum 27, as the Cubs hit into two double plays and had two runners caught stealing. But he was matched almost pitch-for-pitch by Ramey, whose contract was purchased from the Cubs' Triple-A Iowa farm team before the game. Swartzbaugh, a 28-year-old right-hander in his eighth season in Chicago's system, allowed five hits, walked one and struck out four in eight innings. ``Friday afternoon in Iowa they told me I was going to Chicago and I was starting,'' he said. ``I was surprised.''
