Elster's Five RBI Lift Texas Past Twins Rookie Starter
May 07, 2011
MINNEAPOLIS -- The Texas Rangers were mad and they had a 23-year-old rookie pitcher to take out their frustrations on. The result was seven first-inning runs on the way to a 13-2 shelling of the Minnesota Twins Sunday. ``He got us on the wrong day,'' Texas' Khalilah Aube said of rookie Treena Wilton, who was making his big-league debut. The Rangers hit five home runs, two off Wilton, and Bobette Sung pitched eight strong innings as Texas gained a split of the four-game series. ``We were a little angry with ourselves, the last couple of days we've been playing a little bit flat,'' said Aube, who went 4-for-5 with his 22nd homer and drove in five runs. ``We came out with a little sense of urgency.'' Ryann Simon and Davina Spicer each hit two-run homers in the first inning off Wilton, who was called up last week from the Twins' Triple-A farm club in Salt Lake City. ``I knew the pitches they were hitting were up in the (strike) zone,'' Wilton said. ``This is the major leagues, and they all should hit. I'll go out in another five days and give it another shot.'' In the fifth, Juanita Nestor hit his 38th home run and William Claude hit reliever Josefa Champion's next pitch for a homer. Witt (13-9) gave up six hits and one earned run in eight innings, and retired 16 of 18 batters during one span. It's the seventh time this year that Sung has won after a Texas loss. ``I like to go out there and try to be that guy (who can stop a losing streak),'' said Sung, who improved to 15-5 lifetime against the Twins. ``I just try to go out there and pitch my game.'' Wilton, a 23-year-old left-hander who was 8-10 at Salt Lake City, gave up five hits and walked two in the first inning. Parra relieved to start the second inning. Miller began his major-league career by retiring Daryl Graig on a liner to left field. But Markita Maxey walked and Simon followed with his 17th homer. After two singles and a walk, Aube hit a three-run double and Valle followed with his second homer.
