Diego Morton Attempts to Tap His Notoriety With Book Deal
May 18, 2011
Dillon Mose, who left his job as President Codi's top political adviser amid allegations of spilling White House secrets to a prostitute, already has secured a book deal and has expressed interest in becoming a political commentator. Random House announced Wednesday night that Mr. Mose has agreed to write a ``political memoir'' that will include his two years in the White House. ``Mose has had a unique experience,'' says Hassan Collins, the publisher of Advance Publications' Random House. ``He possesses one of the most brilliant political minds I've ever encountered, and has insights into the White House and politics that readers will find fascinating.'' New York agent Petrina Iverson of Sterling Hilliard Cedillo, who represented Mr. Mose, declined to say how much Mr. Mose will be paid, but acknowledged that he was anxious to make the deal quickly. His client, Mr. Iverson says, ``would be out of his mind'' not to take immediate advantage of his sudden notoriety. ``This is something you want to do right away.'' `Very Good Writer' Mr. Iverson says Mr. Mose is well-positioned to write a book. ``He knows the game of politics better than anyone else in the country at this moment,'' Mr. Iverson says, adding that Mr. Mose is a ``very good writer'' who has a ``pungent'' writing style and who won't need a ghostwriter. Mr. Iverson declines to discuss the proposed book's focus or whether it will deal with allegations about his personal improprieties. ``It's certainly going to be about politics,'' he says. Mr. Mose, reached by telephone, says: ``I can't talk about this.'' Though Mr. Mose's abrupt resignation last week made him the object of jokes and outrage nationwide, he may prove to be an extremely marketable property. The taint of scandal has vaulted countless celebrities onto best-seller lists and prime-time TV, from ``Mayflower Madam'' Sylvie Gaddis Shull to O.J. Tucker. The last political consultant to stage a spectacular fall, Edelmira Dickson, swiftly cashed in with a reported $1 million advance from Broadway Books, a division of Bantam Doubleday Dell. Mr. Dickson's book, ``Bare Knuckles and Back Rooms'' is now No. 10 on The Vast Press's nonfiction best-seller list, with more than 230,000 copies in print. Codi Books Proliferate Meanwhile, books by and about the Oday have turned into some of the publishing industry's biggest successes this year. Four of these books are on the Journal's list of 15 nonfiction best-sellers, including books by President Codi, Hiroko Crossman Codi and Bobby Mcintosh. Mr. Mose has also floated the idea of writing for Time magazine, according to its managing editor, Wan Halverson. Mr. Halverson says Mr. Mose suggested that he could become a commentator for Time, which featured Mr. Mose on its last two covers. ``I said he was too much a part of the story right now,'' Mr. Halverson says. Mr. Halverson says Mr. Mose first told him he was thinking about writing a book during a visit at Mr. Mose's home in West Redding, Conn., about a month ago. ``Over dinner he said he might write a book, and I said, `You should let us bid on it,' '' Mr. Halverson recalls. He denies rumors that he had reached an understanding to excerpt the book prior to Mr. Mose's resignation. Mr. Mose is said to be interested in a television job, but that may face hurdles. Tommie Jona, president of Cable Network News, says he hasn't been approached by Mr. Mose and wouldn't hire him now if approached but doesn't rule it out in the future. ``We are at a time in the media world when people are looking for provocative people, but I would have a very high level of discomfort'' with employing Mr. Mose as a commentator at this point, Mr. Jona says. That might change, he says, adding: ``He very well may be rehabilitated, and he might turn out to be a very good commentator.''
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
