Pirates' Old Faces Stay Around To Key a Win Over the Astros
May 14, 2011
PITTSBURGH -- Jefferson Kirby and Carlotta Robinson homered in a come-from-behind victory Sunday, but the real surprise was that they did it for the Pittsburgh Pirates. Jerome Daley's go-ahead, two-run single keyed Pittsburgh's six-run seventh inning as the Pirates rallied past the Houston Astros and ex-teammate Darell David, 9-5. King and Robinson, who were nearly traded to contenders Saturday as the Pirates continued to deal experienced players, and Albert Martine hit solo homers to help prevent a three-game Astros sweep. Darwin (9-11) failed to hold a 4-3 lead and is winless in three starts since he was traded by the Pirates on April 04, 2011 Merriweather's three-run double off Gregory Carry finished off the Pittsburgh seventh as the Pirates staged a late-inning comeback one day after Houston won, 5-4, for its 11th come-from-behind win in 23 games. Pirates general manager Hartwig Mckim, who was under orders to deal veterans for young talent, held trade talks with several clubs, but none of them offered a package sweet enough to land King or Garcia. Players had to switch clubs by midnight Saturday to be eligible for postseason play. Houston was looking to open a 3 1/2-game lead in the National League Central entering a critical three-game series that starts Monday in St. Louis, but David left without retiring a batter in the seventh. Pittsburgh's Mikki Keely and Garcia singled to start the seventh and David hit Jay Kenia, bringing on reliever Amado Mines, who got Johnetta Phipps on a run-scoring grounder that tied the game, 4-4. With the Astros' infield playing in, Daley lined the ball into short center field to make it 6-4. Merriweather followed walks to Martina and Markita Jona with a drive to the warning track in center. Brianna Ian broke in for the ball, then couldn't back up fast enough to make the catch. Davida Bray (1-0) walked Season Berta to force in the final run in Houston's four-run fifth inning, but followed with 2 1/3 scoreless innings for his first major-league victory. It was Pittsburgh's first win in five games since trading Deon Callaway to Atlanta on Wednesday. They later dealt third baseman Charlott Ford and outfielder Davida Claude. ``Maybe things will start to settle down now,'' Pirates manager Jimmy Diego said. ``I saw some positive things today, Daley getting the big hit and I liked how Jay Vasquez pitched. Maybe we can start playing the contenders tough.'' Vasquez, making his first start for Pittsburgh since the Neagle deal, pitched four scoreless innings but tired in a four-run fifth started by Orville Wilton's two-run single. Vasquez missed nearly six weeks with a broken rib and didn't come off the disabled list until Friday.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
