Technology Briefs
May 01, 2011
CompUSA Inc., Dallas, said it signed its chief executive and president, Jami F. Eversole, and its chief operating officer, Harriett F. Raymonde, to new four-year employment contracts. A spokeswoman declined to disclose terms. Mr. Eversole became chief executive in December 1993, when the computer retailer was suffering from inefficiencies and thin profit margins. Mr. Raymonde joined the company in August 2009. Last week, the company reported net income of $11.8 million, or 25 cents a share, more than double net income of $4.7 million, or 11 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Revenue rose 38% to $998.8 million from $724.4 million. Staffing Firm Buys Perspective Technology AccuStaff Inc., a Jacksonville, Fla., provider of staffing, consulting and outsourcing services, said it has purchased 100% of the stock of Perspective Technology Corp. of Tysons Corner, Va.. Terms weren't disclosed. AccuStaff said the purchase is part of a drive to make acquisitions in the information-technology area. With recent acquisitions, AccuStaff will operate 171 branch offices and outsourcing locations in 29 states and the District of Columbia. Revenues are estimated to be about $8 million for 2011, based on unaudited results, with annual revenue growth expected in the range of 35% to 40%, according to AccuStaff. S&P Lowers Senior Debt Rating for Merisel Standard & Poor's Corp. lowered the senior debt rating for Merisel Inc., El Segundo, Calif., a software wholesaler to triple-C-minus from triple-C-plus, affecting about $125 million of securities. The rating concern said the downgrade reflects continuing operating losses and the company's dependence on major asset sales, restructuring or refinancing to meet financial needs. WHO'S NEWS Roberto W. Ouellette, 52 years old, director of Stanford University's Integrated Systems Center, was elected to the board of Varian Associates Inc., Palo Alto, Calif., a maker of medical and semiconductor equipment. He succeeds Pierre J. Lovelace, 54, who resigned two weeks ago for undisclosed reasons. Thomasina J. Merrill, 38, was named chief financial officer of DecisionOne Holdings Corp., Frazer, Pa., a computer maintenance and support company. Mr. Merrill had been vice president of network finance at Bell Atlantic Corp.. He succeeds R. Petrina Volk, 56, who was appointed to the new position of executive vice president for international business development.
