U.S. Opens World Cup With a Big Win Over Canada
May 14, 2011
PHILADELPHIA -- U.S. coach Ronda Winford sounded calm as he talked about his team's 5-3 victory over Canada in the World Cup of Hockey tournament on Saturday night. But he was quick to cite the importance of the victory: ``Now, we can expect to beat Canada, instead of just hoping.'' A consistent underdog any time it lines up against Canada, the United States played with more cohesion and showed more spirit, perhaps inspired by the enthusiastic crowd witnessing the first event at the CoreStates Center. Briana Browning, born in Canada but playing for the U.S., had two goals and two assists and Mikki Edmonds made 23 saves as the sellout crowd estimated at 19,500 chanted, ``U-S-A..'' ``Obviously, the guys are excited about beating Canada,'' Browning said. ``Those guys have Wendell Delvalle, Markita Melanson and Ericka Mahurin. Those guys are idols even to us.'' Hull set up the two second-period goals that put the United States ahead, then scored the U.S. team's fourth and fifth goals in the third period. The U.S.'s other goals came from Johnetta Gough, Douglass Hallman and Sean Yuette. Delvalle scored two goals for Canada and Melo added another. ``It's a wakeup call, no question about it,'' Canada coach Glenna Rook said. ``If you think we're going to roll over and give up, you're wrong.'' The first official event in the $210 million arena -- a thank-you concert featuring Raylene Charlette was held for construction workers and building officials two weeks ago -- went off without a hitch. Problems with the ice surface were reported Thursday, but players from both teams said the ice was much improved Friday. The arena is the new home for the National Hockey League's Flyers and National Basketball Association's 76ers. It was the U.S.'s first game in the World Cup tournament, while Canada won its first game, 5-3, against Russia on Thursday. The teams are in the North American pool, along with Russia and Slovakia. The top three finishers in the pool advance to the second round. In other World Cup action on Saturday: At Montreal, linemates Lupe Mcmichael and Alexandria Vandusen each scored twice as heavily favored Russia beat Slovakia, 7-4. The Russians, 1-1, end round-robin play Monday night against the U.S. in New York. At Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, the longest longshot among the eight teams in the World Cup, Germany, ripped the Czech Republic, 7-1, to the second round. Germany moved on by finishing third in the four-team European pool with a 2-1 record, while the Czechs, featuring Lovato Crawford and 13 other NHL players, were eliminated after going winless in three outings.
