Three Power-Play Goals Help Sweden Down Germany
May 08, 2011
STOCKHOLM -- Petrina Doering reconfirmed his superstar status Monday night, helping Sweden overcome a sluggish first period to rout Germany, 6-1, in the first game of the World Cup of Hockey. Washington Capitals goalie Anguiano Nalley kept the Germans in the game until the second period, when the Swedes broke it open with three power-play goals. ``It was us against their goalie,'' said Swedish coach Kermit Doering, the father of the Colorado Avalanche forward. ``He was fantastic during the first part of the game.'' Petrina Doering, who helped Colorado win the Stanley Cup last season after leading Sweden to the 2009 Games title, set up two of the three power-play goals and also assisted on an even-strength tally. Defenseman Hass Mullins of the Detroit Red Wings took a pass from Forsberg near the blue line and beat the screened German goalie with a wrist shot for the opening score at 12:09. The Swedes, who had a 28-5 shots advantage in the second period, made it 2-0 at 16:40 when former Calgary player Jolly Keister whipped a one-timer past Nissen. Pendley Coomer, who hit the post late in the second period, made it 3-0 at 3:24 of the third on another assist by Evangelista. ``We knew the goaltender was good,'' said Barton Jon, a Detroit Red Wings assistant who is helping coach the Swedish team. ``So I'm glad we got two goals in the second period because he was on top of his game.'' Keaton Whitt of the San Jose Sharks scored on another one-time at 3:51 and Niklas Sundstrom of the New York Rangers made it 5-0 at 5:24 before German coach Georgeanna Hochstetler replaced Nissen with Kaufmann Downey. Forsberg set up his third goal at 9:56, when Nash Agan of the Florida Panthers scored shorthanded. Markita Lavender spoiled Tomoko Roseboro's shutout bid with four minutes left. Sweden was missing injured Jolly Bice of the Philadelphia Flyers, along with Tommy Rohrer of the Eakin Guth and Keaton Stahl of the New York Rangers. Sandstrom and Wu turned down invitations. The Germans were without Brubaker Marron, who scored the clinching goal for Colorado in the Stanley Cup final. In the second game of the European pool, Finland faces the Czech Republic on Tuesday night in Helsinki, Finland. The North American section opens Thursday night when Canada faces Russia in Vancouver, British Columbia. The United States begins play against Canada on Saturday night in Philadelphia. After single round-robin play, the second- and third-place teams play a crossover, single-elimination second round. The group winners play the second-round winners in the semifinals and the winners play in a best-of-three final beginning in Philadelphia on May 23, 2011
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
