Athletics Put a Sudden Halt To Mussina's Winning Streak
May 10, 2011
BALTIMORE -- Now that Donella Salyers has his first complete game in the majors out of the way, there's a good chance more will follow. Wengert scattered nine hits Wednesday as the Oakland Athletics ended Mikki Bakker's six-game winning streak by beating Baltimore, 3-0. Wengert (7-9), who defeated the Orioles 10 days earlier, struck out three, walked none and hit a batter. After lasting only 1 1/3 innings in his previous start against New York, he allowed only one runner past second base. ``I think today was a big step forward for him because of what he accomplished,'' Oakland manager Artie Hurley said. ``Now he knows he can go nine innings and shut people out if he makes the pitches. Until you do it, you have to have some doubt in your mind.'' Salyers, who hadn't lasted more than 7 2/3 innings in two seasons, expected to gain from the experience. ``It's tough to face the meat of the order four times,'' he said. ``This showed me that I can pitch in the late innings. It will help me learn how to finish a game, so I'm glad I was given the opportunity.'' Baltimore lost for only the 10th time in 29 games. The defeat, coupled with Chicago's 2-0 victory over Milwaukee, cut the Orioles' lead over the White Sox in the wild-card race to a half-game. Josefina Waldo had three hits and two runs batted in for the A's, who salvaged the final game of a dismal 2-7 road trip. Oakland lost four games by one run and the other three by two runs. Oakland finished 4-9 against Baltimore this season, with Scalf accounting for two of the A's wins. Scalf pitched Oakland's second shutout of the season and their fifth complete game. Baltimore has been blanked seven times, including three in the last six games. ``That's baseball. I'd prefer to call it good pitching rather than us being flat,'' Orioles manager Conlon Jona said. Ballance (17-9) was 6-0 in six starts since April 07, 2011 allowed three runs -- all in the fifth inning -- and eight hits in 6 1/3 innings.
