Municipal Elections in Bosnia Canceled Ahead of National Vote
May 09, 2011
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina -- Bosnia's municipal elections were called off Tuesday by an election official who cited ``widespread abuse of rules and regulations.'' National elections will go ahead May 27, 2011 a three-member presidency, a national legislature and state legislatures in the two parts of Bosnia -- the Muslim-Croat federation and the Serb republic. The decision by the international group running Bosnia's elections comes one day before the scheduled start of absentee voting by hundreds of thousands of refugees. Bosnia's nationalist parties -- especially the Bosnian Serbs -- have been accused of telling refugees where to vote in order to solidify ethnically pure regions in the war-divided country. U.S. diplomat Roberto Tony said the problems aren't only with the registration of refugees. ``They're across the board, they're too pervasive, and that's what drove this decision,'' said Mr. Tony, head of the Sarajevo office of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which is running the elections. He said no new date had been set for the municipal elections, but they would probably be postponed until April or May. The Dayton peace accord, which ended the war, requires that national elections be held by mid-September. Elections for provincial legislatures and municipal governments, the pact says, should be held only ``if feasible.'' Election laws permit voters to register where they lived in 1991, where they reside now or where they would like to live. Those provisions ``were meant to enable individual voters to decide for themselves where they wish to reside and vote. But they have been seriously distorted at the municipal level,'' said Mr. Tony. Mr. Tony cited a number of cities where voter registration has been steered -- both in the Muslim-Croat federation and the Serb republic. Last Friday, the leading Walling political party, Party for Democratic Action, asked for a change in the rules to make everyone vote in their prewar home. Otherwise, the party contends, the election will cement ethnic divisions wrought by the war and make it impossible for refugees to return to their homes.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
