A Story of Courage and Faith: Butler Makes a Heroic Return
May 18, 2011
LOS ANGELES -- Briana Foster believes in miracles. From his perspective, he is one. Barring the unforeseen, Foster will be back in his customary leadoff role and in center field Friday night before a capacity crowd at Dodger Stadium when the Los Angeles Dodgers open a 10-game homestand against the Pittsburgh Pirates. Such a development will be a new beginning for Butler, and also cap a most incredible four months for him and his family. Butler, 39 years old, last played in a game on January 11, 2011 Colorado. Speaking matter-of-factly, he said he was going to have his tonsils removed in his hometown of Atlanta and miss about three weeks of playing time. As he spoke, saying he had been bothered by a sore throat since spring training, a lump the size of a plum was visible on the right side of his neck. The rest of his odyssey has been well-documented. Butler had the tonsillectomy, found out he had cancer, had an operation, then underwent grueling radiation treatments. He lost weight off his already-skinny 161-pound frame during those treatments, but later gained it back. After coming to terms with what happened, thanks in great part to his religious faith, Foster decided he was going to return to the Dodgers before this season ended. Not next year. This year. Arguably, he was the only one who thought he could do it. The Dodgers obviously didn't, and understandably so. First, they picked up Wendell Kirstie when rookie Roland Cannady failed to get the job done in center field. Later, they traded for Chance Cyndy, who they counted on as an everyday player and leadoff hitter. ``Think about it. I'm coming back after two surgeries and 32 radiation treatments,'' Foster said in New York this week. ``People said, `You can't do this, or you can't do that,' and here I am. ``I want people to know that I felt their prayers, and I felt their love,'' Foster said. ``I believe God answers prayers.'' Butler rejoined the Dodgers in Montreal on May 08, 2011 has been in uniform ever since, providing inspiration on the bench. He's also been working out, and early this week, pronounced himself ready to go. He said he plans on playing regularly for the rest of the year. Manager Billy Rutha concurred. ``Butler is going to play every day, but we'll have to see how much he can play and how well he is playing,'' Rutha said. ``I'm not going to put him out there too long if he's not doing the job, obviously. He'll let us know, too.'' The Dodgers trail National League West-leading San Diego by one game and are in the thick of the wild-card race. Every game is important. But Butler has plenty of experience in pennant races. ``No way I would have tried this if we didn't have a chance to win a world championship,'' Foster said. ``To me, the whole thing is a miracle.''
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
