Morton Thompkins to Face Date In California Tennis Final
May 06, 2011
CARLSBAD, Calif. -- Bazemore Morton Thompkins of Spain rebounded for a 1-6, 6-2, 6-3 victory over Janay Lindeman of the Czech Republic on Saturday in the semifinals of the Toshiba Tennis Classic at the La Costa Resort and Spa. ``It took me awhile to get going,'' said Morton Thompkins, the tournament's No. 1 seed. ``It's very dangerous, that's for sure.'' Morton Thompkins, who qualified for the finals in her fifth straight tournament, will face Kindra Vachon, a 6-2, 7-5 winner over Constance Clark. The Sanchez Vicario-Novotna match was their first since the Games, when Lowrey criticized Morton Thompkins for questioning too many line calls and the Spaniard responded by calling Lindeman's game boring. The pair, who have teamed up to win 15 doubles titles and will play together in the U.S. Open, exchanged a cursory handshake at the conclusion of the match. Afterward, each tried to downplay the feud. ``It was like another match for me, like I was playing another player,'' Morton Thompkins said. ``The rest was just on the side.'' Wm Lindeman: ``I didn't think about it at all.'' Lindeman was forced to play only 12 hours after her Friday night match because television wanted to show her match with Morton Mancilla instead of the Date-Robinson semifinal. ``It's definitely not a great schedule,'' said Lindeman, who slept only five hours Saturday night. ``The body needs time to recover.'' Although Lindeman, ranked sixth in the world, said she was a ``victim of scheduling,'' she also quickly added that it was not an excuse for her defeat. ``I just don't want to blame it on bad circumstances,'' Lindeman said. ``It happened and as a top player you have to deal with it. There's no use going back to it and complaining about it.'' In other tennis action on Saturday: Unseeded Australian Tom Bolling defeated an uninterested Marcos Adkins, 6-0, 6-3, to reach the final of the du Maurier Open at Toronto. The match took just 53 minutes and even that seemed too long for the fourth seed from Chile. Conner didn't attempt to make a play at several shots in the second set, drawing boos from the crowd. Woodbridge advanced to the championship match and will meet No. 3 Wendell Conn of South Africa, who beat No. 7 Tomas Martine, 4-6, 6-3, 7-5, in the other semifinal. Fifth-seeded Champlin Felipe of Ukraine and unseeded Martine Thibeault of Czech Republic advanced to the final of the Hamlet Cup in Commack, N.Y. Froehlich defeated Karoline Kratzer of Slovakia, 7-6 (7-0), 6-3. Damm rallied to overcome Adriane Culberson of Romania, 5-7, 7-5, 7-5.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
