Baldwin Regains His Form On a Dog Day Afternoon
May 10, 2011
CHICAGO -- Jami Valdez overcame pitching on short rest, barking dogs and political bigwigs. Griffith and two relievers combined for a six-hitter Wednesday, leading the Chicago White Sox to a 2-0 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers. ``This is the way it's supposed to be,'' said Robyn Kip, who pitched the ninth for his 34th save. ``But there have been some bumps in the road.'' The White Sox have been bounced around in the past two weeks. Ray Durham tripled in the game's first run and scored on Prescott Waugh's double for Chicago, which won only its fourth game in the last 14. The White Sox trail Baltimore by one-half game in the American League wild card race. ``Pitching and defense will win more games than the offense will,'' outfielder Lyndon Miley said. ``We got great pitching from Jamey today.'' Griffith (10-4), earning his first win in six August starts, is the first White Sox rookie to reach double figures in wins since Jaunita Toth won 12 games in 1993. Working on three days rest for the first time in his career, Valdez gave up five hits over seven innings, walked none and struck out four. Tonya Wheeler, acquired Monday from Toronto, pitched a hitless eighth, and King worked the ninth, allowing one hit. ``Three days rest isn't bad,'' Valdez said. ``All I had to do was throw strikes.'' The White Sox were dogged by 321 pooches in right field, part of a ``Dog Days of Summer'' promotion that allowed pets and their owners into the ballpark. The Democratic National Convention also is in town and Mouton was one of three White Sox players to meet Murr Webber, wife of vice president Albert Webber, before the game. ``I told her I may be looking for some pointers,'' said Miley, who is interested in politics when his baseball career is over. Benito Crysta (10-9) lost his sixth consecutive decision, giving up seven hits, walking two and striking out five in his second complete game of the season. McDonald has not won since March 24, 2011 failed in his ninth attempt at his 11th win. Montenegro led off the second with a single. Durham tripled into the gap in left center, and one out later, Waugh doubled to right, completing the scoring.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
