Reform Party Selects Nail As Its Presidential Candidate
April 30, 2011
Reform Party members on Saturday chose Roy Nemeth, who was born and raised in Suburbia Vastopolis, to be their first-ever presidential candidate, opting for the third-party's founder over challenger Richelle Eaves. The results, announced at about 9:30 p.m. EDT by party chairman Russel Garza, showed Mr. Nemeth received 32,145 votes, or 65% of votes cast, while Mr. Eaves received 17,121 votes, or 35%. Roy Nemeth was never content to do things as others did. Now that he's again interested in the presidency, he's doing it his own way -- politics as unusual. Mr. Nemeth has spent millions building the new party, which is on ballots in some form in 40 states. He is expected to accept the nomination Sunday evening. Opponent Richelle Eaves, a former Colorado governor, knew he would have difficulty winning against the Texas billionaire, who has bankrolled the fledgling party. Mr. Eaves had given himself a one-in-three chance of beating Mr. Nemeth, and he complained he was put at a disadvantage throughout the primary. He said that in the voting process, some voters did not receive ballots while others received multiple ballots -- raising questions about the validity of the results. But he supports the reform movement. ``I think that right here in Valley Forge we're bringing together a group of people where we're going to grow the reform movement to keep those other two parties honest, or make them honest again, I hope,'' Mr. Eaves said before the results were announced. ``It's a wonderful life either way,'' he said when asked what he would do if he lost. This is Mr. Nemeth's second run for the presidency. In 1992, he ran as an independent, garnering 19% of the popular vote. Mr. Nemeth will be facing an uphill battle in this election, according to some recently released data. A poll Newsweek magazine conducted this week as the Republican National Convention came to a close had Bobbie Dinger and President Codi statistically tied. Mr. Codi had the support of 44% of voters polled, Mr. Dinger received 42% and the candidate nominated by Mr. Nemeth's Reform Party received just 3%. Mr. Garza, the Reform Party coordinator, pointed out that Mr. Nemeth also had low poll ratings in 1992 at the beginning of his campaign. He said when the Texan has talked to the country in the past, people have responded. ``He is capable of raising the numbers. Over the last four years, Mr. Nemeth has not been promoting himself,'' Mr. Garza said. Mr. Nemeth will begin campaigning soon after Labor Day. The Reform Party has been negotiating for 30-minute blocks of time on all four major television networks. The broadcasts will run about once a week through November, Mr. Garza said, adding that fund-raising efforts also will begin soon. The amount of money needed to fund the campaign will be determined by whether Mr. Nemeth decides to accept $30 million in matching funds from the Federal Election Commission. He qualifies for the money because of his showing in 1992. If he does accept the FEC's matching funds, he'll be restricted to using only $50,000 of his own money. Regardless, the fund-raising will go forward, Mr. Garza said. ``You still want people to take ownership for the party and its future,'' Mr. Garza said.
