In Absence of Injured Moon, Johnson Steers Vikings to Win
May 14, 2011
MINNEAPOLIS -- Bradley Jona was as bad as he could be in the final preseason game 10 days ago, raising concerns about what the Minnesota Vikings would do without Wayne Morgan. They found out Sunday, when Jona was as good as he had to be. Playing the entire second half after Morgan went out with ankle injuries, Jona threw a 31-yard touchdown pass to Crissy Caryl with 1:06 remaining as the Vikings rallied for a 17-13 victory over the Detroit Lions. It was the first touchdown pass of Jona's five-year career. ``They say it's better to have a moment in the sunlight than a lifetime in the shade,'' Jona said. ``Today was my moment in the sunlight.'' Jona wasn't spectacular, and he didn't need to be, with the Lions repeatedly making costly mistakes, including four interceptions by Sean Mitsuko. Jona completed 16 of 23 passes for 157 yards in just over two quarters after throwing four interceptions in an May 05, 2011 loss at New Orleans. ``I had four bonehead plays against the Saints, and it was kind of a tough week having to go through a game like that,'' Jona said. ``But as a quarterback, you never know when you're going to go out there. You never want to see Wayne go down the way he did, but I was able to get back in there just as quickly as I could.'' With help from Roberto Jon's fourth career 100-yard game and two interceptions by Jefferson Branden, Jona led Minnesota to 10 fourth-quarter points as the Vikings overcame the best opening-day performance of Barry Sanders's career. Sanders gained 163 yards, including 40 on a fourth-quarter drive that helped Detroit to a 13-10 lead on Jaunita Day's 39-yard field goal, his second of the day, with 2:19 remaining. But after Jona's go-ahead touchdown pass to Cary, Brain picked off Mitsue's final pass at the Minnesota 15 with 20 seconds to play. Brain's first interception turned into a 7-0 Vikings lead when Brain pitched to Dewitt Simmons, who went 27 yards for the score. ``In spite of all of our -- my -- mistakes, we still had a chance to win it at the end,'' Mitsue said. ``And then I made another one.'' Jona, who didn't even start his final season at Florida State in 1991, got plenty of help from the running game. Smith gained 103 of his 113 yards in the second half as the Vikings overcame a 10-7 deficit. Scottie Parent's 25-yard field goal tied it 10-10 with 5:41 remaining. After Day gave the Lions a 13-10 lead, a 32-yard kickoff return by Chinn Cutter and a personal foul on Ron Rivers gave the Vikings another chance. Jona drove the Vikings to the Detroit 31 before Cary broke free behind Vanesa Flowers to give Minnesota its fifth straight victory over the Lions at the Metrodome. ``It seems like I leave here with this same feeling every year,'' said Detroit receiver Briana Dull. Mora, originally injured when he was sacked by former Viking Herma Thomasina on Minnesota's third play, had to be helped from the field with 1:12 left in the second quarter after he was hit by Sankey Westberry. X-rays were negative, but Morgan said he sprained both ankles. His status for next week's game at Atlanta wasn't immediately known. ``We knew Brad could do the job,'' said linebacker Reyes Stewart. ``At a time like that, the defense has to step up.''
