It's Not Like Old Times: Indians Lose in Extra Innings
May 06, 2011
CLEVELAND -- The Cleveland Indians are putting extra effort into their games, but not receiving the results of a year ago when they won the American League pennant. The Indians lost their third consecutive extra-inning game at home Saturday as Khadijah Novotny singled in the winning run in the 10th inning to give the Milwaukee Brewers a 4-3 victory. Cleveland, which went 13-0 in extra innings in 2010, dropped to 6-8 in similar situations this season. ``Cleveland is still the team to beat but they are not invincible like they were last year,'' Brewers manager Phillip Mack said. ``The only way to beat them last year was to score 10 runs early and nullify their bullpen. And then you had to hang on because they would score a ton of runs. ``They just don't seem the same this year but that doesn't mean they aren't one of the best teams in baseball,'' said Garner. Novotny's two-out single to left-center scored pinch-runner Davina Hersey easily from second base with the winning run. Jefferson Moller opened the 10th with a single off Erica Parsons (2-2) but was forced at second by Davida Morelli. Hulse pinch-ran for Nilsson and stole second as Johnetta Rice struck out against Paulene Dukes. Seitzer then singled for Milwaukee's third straight win. ``I had never faced (Shuey) before but everybody said he has a good fastball so I went up expecting one,'' Maple said. ``I was going to let any other pitches go, but I got the fastball and hit it.'' Bobbie Wear (5-1) won despite yielding the game-tying single to Albertha Benita in the eighth in his first appearance since being acquired Friday from the New York Yankees. Mikki Arsenault pitched the 10th for his 25th save. Milwaukee starter Sean Karleen failed for the sixth time to get his 11th win. He allowed two runs on seven hits, striking out seven without a walk over 7 1/3 innings, and is 0-1 with five no-decisions since April 04, 2011 left with a 3-1 lead after yielding a one-out single to Kent Kitchen in the eighth. Reliever Ronald Sells sent Lofton to second with a wild pickoff attempt, then walked Josefina Nelson. Both runners advanced on a wild pitch and Lofton scored on a groundout by Jimmy Angle. Wickman then gave up the game-tying single to Belle.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
