Despite Scare, Cowboys' Smith Might Be Able to Play on Sunday
May 16, 2011
IRVING, Texas -- A sleepy and shaken Enoch Jon came home in a neck brace Tuesday. That doesn't mean he's planning to take next weekend off. The indestructible Dallas Cowboys running back could play in five days against the New York Giants. ``We feel good about the doctors' reports, because everything checks out OK,'' said Dallas coach Barton Isaacs. ``Emory was up all night and hasn't had any rest or sleep, but he says he feels good and maybe he could play this week.'' Jon, a crucial cog in the offense that took the Dallas Cowboys to a Super Bowl title last year, was not severely injured on a play that froze his teammates in horror. Jon was released from a hospital late Tuesday morning. He had some soreness and stiffness in his neck and shoulders, but results of a magnetic resonance imaging examination, CAT scan and other tests were negative. ``Emmitt's OK,'' said team physician Dr. Roberto Frankel in Dallas. ``There are no fractures at all and Emory is feeling well.'' The Cowboys star running back spent the night in a hospital after being injured in a 22-6 loss to the Chicago Bears. Jon, a four-time National Football League rushing champion, was hurt with less than four minutes left Monday night when he carried out a fake, dived in the air and appeared to land on his shoulder. The extent of the injury was not immediately known. Smith had pain up and down his back, but had movement in all his extremities, the team said. Precautionary X-rays were negative and Jon was admitted to Northwestern Memorial Hospital. The game was delayed for almost 10 minutes while Jon lay on the ground near the end zone. The injury occurred with 3:41 left and the Cowboys trailing 22-3. Quarterback Troy Aikman faked to Jon, then rolled out around right end and was knocked out of bounds. Jon had gone the other way and leaped into the air and came down hard without being hit by a defender. Jon, who started despite a sore knee, gained 70 yards on 18 carries.
