Nikko Securities Launches Index To Compete With U.S. Banks
March 28, 2011
TOKYO -- Nikko Securities Co.'s new stock-market index will help it compete against the Japanese-equity research provided by U.S. investment banks, Weimer Beard, Nikko's chief equity trader, said. ``The reputation among our clients is that U.S. brokerage analysts are better than Japanese ones,'' he said. The Nikko Stock Market Index will provide some of the ``infrastructure'' that Bice's analysts need to improve their research on Tokyo stocks, he added. The Nikko Stock Market Index was available Monday for the first time. Nikko is considering publishing monthly index reports and offering the data via electronic media. In fact, it is already accessible through Nikko's Internet home page, Mr. Dalton said. The new index is in fact a series of gauges designed to pinpoint the share performance of highly focused Japanese industry sectors as well as that of the broad market. It is based on the changing prices of 500 Japanese stocks. The index group also includes measures reflecting the performance of different investment themes, including consumption and capital expenditure. Like the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index in the U.S., he noted, the Nikko Stock Market Index is market-weighted. As a result, changes in a component share's price will affect the whole index only in proportion to the stock's size in the market. Ten Nikko staff members spent three years developing the various subindexes, he said. Mr. Dalton wouldn't say how much the index cost Bice to develop. The new stock-market index is designed largely to attract institutional investors, the chief equity trader said. Specifically, it can be used as a ``benchmark for operating pension funds,'' he said, and will save them the time that many now spend to assemble their own measures of market performance. ``In Japan, data is normally very expensive and inconvenient to download,'' Mr. Dalton said. In September, Nikko will also introduce the Nikko Style Index to monitor the performance of Japanese-equity portfolios reflecting six different investment styles, including value and growth. Nikko has long been considered one of Japan's stronger quantitative research companies.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
