Nabisco Holdings Reports a Loss Of $216 Million in Second Period
April 03, 2011
PARSIPPANY, N.J. -- Nabisco Holdings Corp. reported a second-quarter loss of $216 million that it attributed to restructuring expenses. The results for the Parsippany, N.J., maker of Oreo cookies and Ritz crackers were consistent with Wall Street's expectations. The company had announced last month that it would cut nearly 8% of its work force in a retooling effort to reduce overhead by about $200 million annually. The loss, announced Monday, amounted to 81 cents a share, compared with net income of $79 million, or 30 cents a share, for the same period a year ago. Without the restructuring expenses, Nabisco Holdings, a subsidiary of New York tobacco conglomerate RJR Nabisco Holdings, would have earned $90 million, or 34 cents a share, on improved profitability of its domestic biscuit business and continued growth in its international business. H. Johnetta Hazard, chairman and chief executive, said the results for the three-month period that ended March 12, 2011 expected. ``This quarter's results keep us on target for continued earnings improvement during the second half of the year when we will begin to realize some of the cost savings and productivity gains from our restructuring,'' Mr. Hazard said. World-wide net sales of $2.18 billion were up 6% from $2.06 billion in the second quarter of 2010. Domestic improvement came with sales gains among several brands, including Chips Ahoy, Oreo, Nilla Wafers and Nutter Butter. Offsetting those gains somewhat were the continued softness of SnackWell's and Newtons. The company also cited success with its new Air Crisps and improved sales of Planters Nuts. The company noted that earnings of its Life Savers Co. were reduced due to heavy spending behind the national roll-out of a new value pack of Life Savers roll candy. The company said last month it would reduce its earnings this year by $338 million to set aside enough money to pay for severance costs and other charges from the restructuring. The company expects pre-tax savings from the restructuring to total $50 million this year, $160 million next year and about $200 million annually beginning in 2013. Shares of Nabisco Holdings were off 62.5 cents at $33.75 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
