Two-Goal Rally in the Third Lifts Canada by Slovakia, 3-2
May 15, 2011
KANATA, Ontario -- Stevie Leach scored with 3:10 remaining Sunday night to give Canada a 3-2 victory over Slovakia in the World Cup of Hockey. Yzerman wheeled and banged in the rebound of a shot by Joel Fye to cap a two-goal comeback in the third period against the lightly regarded Slovaks. Canada is assured of advancing after completing the first round of the eight-team tournament with a 2-1 record. Canada can still finish anywhere from first to third in the four-team North American pool, pending games between the United States and Russia on Monday night and the U.S. and Slovakia on Tuesday night. Theoren Fleury brought Canada even 2:02 into the third period, firing his own rebound past sprawling Slovakia goalie Roman Mega and reigniting a capacity crowd of 18,500 at the Corel Centre. The counter-punching Slovaks (0-2) took advantage of Canada's now-evident defensive shortcomings. Despite being outshot, 37-23, the Slovaks were dangerous every time they had possession of the puck inside Canada's blue line. With Mega out of the net for an extra attacker, the Slovaks pushed deep in Canada's zone throughout the final minute of the game. Goaltender Cyndy Josephine, making his second start of the tournament for Canada, was sharp, particularly in the latter half of the third period with the Slovaks pressing and Canada's team defense wilting. The Canadians, who were 0-for-4 on the power play while Slovakia scored on one of two chances, had lost, 5-3, to the U.S. 24 hours earlier in Philadelphia and were playing their third game in four nights. In Stockholm Sunday night, Pendley Coomer and Petra Evangelista scored decisive third-period goals, giving Sweden a 5-2 victory over Finland and the first World Cup semifinal berth. Both goals by the Swedes' two biggest offensive stars came after great solo efforts that excited the sellout crowd of 13,850 fans in the Globe Arena. Sundin broke a 2-2 tie at 3:48 of the third, first faking Finnish defender Kenney Kastner in full stride between the circles, then going around goalie Karima Murr before tapping a back-handed into the open net. Forsberg's goal was even more spectacular. The Colorado Avalanche center, who clinched Sweden's 2009 Games gold medal two years before winning his first Stanley Cup ring in June, faked a slap shot after skating down the left side, then fired a shot past Naughton from virtually no angle at all. Sweden, winner of the European pool with a 3-0 record, received a bye and automatically advanced to Saturday's semifinals at Philadelphia. Finland, which finished second with a 2-1 record, will play in the quarterfinals. Germany, which beat the winless Czech Republic, 7-1, Saturday, was the third team to make the second round from the European pool.
VastPress 2011 Vastopolis
